Title: Ocasio-Cortez Statement on Senate Passage of the DEFIANCE Act
Date: July 23, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. - Following the passage of the DEFIANCE Act in the United States Senate by unanimous consent,Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,who is leading the legislation in the House of Representatives,released the following statement:"Today marks an important step in the fight to protect survivors of nonconsensual deepfake pornography. Over 90% of all deepfake videos made are nonconsensual sexually explicit images, and women are the targets 9 times out of 10. The DEFIANCE Act would guarantee federal protections for survivors of nonconsensual deepfake pornography for the first time, granting the right to take civil action against individuals who knowingly produce, distribute, or receive nonconsensual sexually-explicit digital forgeries.

“I’m glad the U.S. Senate united to pass the DEFIANCE Act. I'm committed to collaborating with colleagues from both sides of the aisle to shepherd the bill through the House of Representatives to get it to the President’s desk. Together, we can give survivors the justice they deserve.”

Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez is the sponsor of theDisrupt Explicit Forged Images and Non-Consensual Edits Act of 2024 (DEFIANCE Act)in the House of Representatives. The bill currently has ten cosponsors in the House of Representatives, Representatives Chavez-DeRemer (R), Deluzio (D), Garcia (CA-R), Lawler (R), Lieu (D), Mace (R), Miller (OH-R), Raskin (D), Ross (D), and Wexton (D).###==
Title: TRANSCRIPT: Rep. AOC Delivers Major Floor Speech on Articles of Impeachment Against Justices Thomas and Alito
Date: July 10, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
View the Speech

REPRESENTATIVE ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ:

Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to introduce articles of impeachment against Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, Clarence Thomas, and Samuel Anthony Alito Jr. Against Justice Thomas the resolution includes three total articles. One count of failure to disclose financial income gifts reimbursements, property interests, liabilities, and transactions among other information and two counts of refusal to recuse from matters concerning his spouse's legal and financial interests before the court.

The second resolution includes the following impeachment articles against Justice Alito, one count of a refusal to recuse from cases in which he had a personal bias or prejudice concerning a party before the court and one count of failure to disclose financial incomes, gifts reimbursements property interests, among other information. Mr. Speaker, nomination and appointment to the Supreme Court is one of the highest privileges and most consequential responsibilities of our nation.

Such an appointment is uniquely insulated in its power. Confirmation to the court is a lifetime appointment, whereby justices are entrusted with decisions that powerfully shaped the nation as well as the lives of every American. For this reason and others, the Constitution rightfully and explicitly holds justices to even higher standards than members of Congress, or even the president.

Section one of Article Three of the Constitution commands federal justices to hold their offices during good behavior, in addition to its clauses barring treason, bribery, and other high crimes and misdemeanors, and Congress has exercised its power to reinforce this higher standard of the judiciary before this body has impeached and removed eight federal judges for transgressions rates ranging from evading income tax and perjury to intoxication on the bench and abandoning the office to join the Confederacy.

Perhaps most critical to the legitimacy of the institution, these traditional standards require justices to recuse themselves in any proceeding where their impartiality might reasonably be questioned. In other words, if a person could reasonably believe that the legitimacy of a justice's judgment could be or be perceived to be compromised, due to their personal involvement in the case or its parties, the standard is clear. The Justice must recuse. They are required to recuse.

That stringent and sacred standard exists for the good of the ruling the judiciary and the country. Mr. Speaker, I believe that everyday Americans independent of party or ideology can reasonably conclude that Justices Thomas and Alito's years long pattern of misconduct and failure to recuse in cases bearing their clear personal and financial involvement represents an abuse of power and threat to our democracy fundamentally incompatible with continued service on our nation's highest court. For the good of the institution and the nation, absent resignation, they must be removed. The proof is undeniable.

And here I will lay it out. Justice Clarence Thomas, for decades now has carried on a close financially entangled personal relationship with real estate billionaire Harlan Crow. It is of material importance to the American people to note that Justice Thomas's relationship to the billionaire only began after Thomas's powerful appointment to our nation's highest court. The cash, goods, and services Justice Thomas received over the years include large loan balance cancellations, tuition payments for family and vacations in private jets and yachts worth up to half a million dollars alone.

In total, Justice Thomas appears to have received more than $1.5 million worth in goods, cash equivalents and services from Mr. Crow. And that is just what we know of. But truthfully, we won't ever really know the total sum of contributions Thomas received from Crow. Justice Thomas not only accepted these contributions, while Mr. Crow had business in front of the court, but he accepts had them in secret feeling for years and years to report them. Yet Thomas did report smaller gifts during this time, demonstrating a clear understanding of his legal obligation to report. Would a reasonable American question that receiving lavish gifts from Mr. Crow might lead Justice Thomas to have a bias towards his quote friend with business before the court? Without a doubt, yes. But to Justice Thomas recuse? No.

Now take Justice Samuel Alito, who has no shortage of billionaire associates of his own. After billionaire Paul Singer gave Justice Alito a luxury fishing trip on a private jet, a contribution that was also hidden from the public and the court. Justice Alito not only refused to recuse, but changed his mind regarding his gracious hosts case. Just a short time after accepting the lavish undisclosed trip from singer Alito joined the court in reversing its previous position and took up Singer's case he did not recuse. Justice Alito also refused to recuse in the case itself, ultimately leading to a ruling that netted Singer $2.4 billion and that ruling did not just enrich Singer. It also structurally tilted the playing field further away from working people and towards the vulture funds, siphoning money and resources away from the communities that need the most. Could a reasonable American question whether or not Justice Alito could have acted impartially in this case, given his personal relationship with Singer? Absolutely.

In January 2021, after the former president of the United States incited an insurrection on the Capitol in this chamber to interfere with the results of the US election, Justice Samuel Alito and his wife flew an upside down American flag, a symbol of solidarity with the attack outside their home. Two years later, they publicly displayed outside their home yet another incendiary symbol, a flag associated with extreme right wing Christian nationalism. Justice Alito maintains that his wife, Martha Ann Alito, is the only one responsible for the flags. But common sense maintains that such a close and incendiary revelation requires recusal by the Justice from January 6th related cases. Despite the overwhelming appearance of a conflict of interest, Justice Alito refused to recuse himself from cases surrounding the 2020 election and questions of the former president's legal immunity in the attack. Would a reasonable person question that Justice Alito's conduct exhibits and demonstrates reasonable concern for bias in these cases? Absolutely. And without question.

And finally, Justice Thomas, who is married to Virginia Thomas, a financially and personally involved operative in the Stop the Steal movement and Capitol attack also joined opinions in these cases, even as clear evidence mounted that not only was his wife fully committed to overthrowing the results of a fair election, but she was actively lobbying members of the Trump administration attempting to do just that. The questions before the court had unquestionable implications for Thomas's wife, and consequently, Thomas himself, making his refusal to recuse one of the most shocking examples of conflict of interest in the court's history. And crucially, it was both Justices Thomas and Alito, who cast critical votes in the ruling.

It now follows that because of Alito's, and Thomas's refusals to recuse everyday Americans cannot, should not, and will not believe that these Justices and consequently the court they serve is working to uphold the Constitution and put the country ahead of their own individual self interests. Americans will not believe that the Court interpreted the law independent of profit for themselves and their newly termed friends. Without action against these blatant violations, reasonable Americans have and will continue to lose faith in the court itself. Reasonable Americans will and do believe that Justices Thomas and Alito are prone and subjected to corruption, that the institution failing to punish them is broken, and that consequently, their impeachment is a constitutional imperative and our congressional duty. The abuses of power committed by Justice Thomas and Justice Alito, are precisely the types of corruption that the framers understood was an existential threat to our democracy.

Instances like these, and misconduct like that of Alito's and Thomas's are precisely why the framers gave us the tool of impeachment. Corruption, without consequence, infects all it touches. And that is why this body, Congress, has a constitutional and moral obligation to hold these Justices accountable, to maintain the integrity of our courts, and to uphold the standards of the judiciary and our institutions. Lastly, we cannot ignore the most important material consequences of this Court's unchecked corruption, and its resulting influence, the suffering of the American people.

We cannot ignore and pretend that this corruption is wholly unrelated to the millions of pregnant Americans now suffering and bleeding out in emergency rooms under the court's unleashing of extreme abortion bans across the United States, which was a key political priority of these undisclosed benefactors, and shadow organizations surrounding Alito and Thomas's misconduct. Nor can we ignore the millions of Americans now suffering hours long wait times in the hot sun, often without water, just to cast a ballot, also a direct result of this corrupt courts gutting of the Voting Rights Act, allowing the closing of polling sites across the country.

You see, neither of these Justices, nor their shadowy benefactors have to answer to the parents of developmentally delayed children about their decision to gut the power of the EPA and the entire administrative state with it. But they do have to answer to us, the Congress, whom these people the American people have elected and entrusted to protect them, to serve them, and to defend the well being of our democracy.

Mr. Speaker, I am here today presenting these articles of impeachment, not because I am a Democrat, and not because I am blind to its odds in a Republican led chamber. I present them because it is the right thing to do. And while our framers perhaps may not have envisioned someone like me, in this seat, they absolutely did envision the necessity and value of the impeachment action upon which I seek to advance today. Thank you and I yield back

==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Introduces Articles of Impeachment Against Justice Thomas and Justice Alito
Date: July 10, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington D.C.—Today, July 10, 2024,Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)introduced articles of impeachment against United States Supreme Court Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito.

“The unchecked corruption crisis on the Supreme Court has now spiraled into a Constitutional crisis threatening American democracy writ large. Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito’s pattern of refusal to recuse from consequential matters before the court in which they hold widely documented financial and personal entanglements constitutes a grave threat to American rule of law, the integrity of our democracy, and one of the clearest cases for which the tool of impeachment was designed.

The Constitution of the United States explicitly outlines a higher standard of conduct for the judiciary to meet, far surpassing its existing bars on treason, bribery, and other high crimes and misdemeanors for all civil officers: the standard of Good Behavior. Judicial ethics and rules, to which even the lowest level judges are held, make those standards clear. The lifetime appointments of Supreme Court justices make enforcement of these standards a solemn responsibility for the protection of our democracy,”said the Congresswoman.

“Justice Thomas and Alito’s repeated failure over decades to disclose that they received millions of dollars in gifts from individuals with business before the court is explicitly against the law. And their refusal to recuse from the specific matters and cases before the court in which their benefactors and spouses are implicated represents nothing less than a constitutional crisis. These failures alone would amount to a deep transgression worthy of standard removal in any lower court, and would disqualify any nominee to the highest court from confirmation in the first place.

Given the court’s demonstrated inability to preserve its own legitimate conduct, it is incumbent upon Congress to contain the threat this poses to our democracy and the hundreds of millions of Americans harmed by the crisis of corruption unfurling within the court. Congress has a legal, moral, and democratic obligation to impeach,”she continued.

The first impeachment resolution includes the following impeachment articles against Justice Thomas:

The second impeachment resolution includes the following impeachment articles against Justice Alito:

The Congresswomanmaintains that such conduct—while under a Judicial Oath to “faithfully and impartially discharge and perform” duties and a Constitutional Oath to “support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic”—warrants impeachment, trial, removal from office, and disqualification from holding future office in the United States of America.

On June 11, 2024,Congresswoman Ocasio-CortezandCongressman Jamie Raskinhosted an oversightroundtablewith expert panelists and legislators, including Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), entitled “High Court, Low Standards, and Dark Money: Flagging a Supreme Court Ethics Crisis in America,” to examine corruption on the court.

On June 20, theywrote a letterto Chief Justice John Roberts to learn what immediate action he would take to restore public trust in the Court amidst severe ethical conflicts.

Additionally, on June 25, the lawmakersintroducedtheHigh Court Gift Ban Actto prohibit Supreme Court justices from receiving gifts valued at more than $50, bringing them in line with Members of Congress and other federal officials.

Read the full text of the resolution filed against Justice Clarence Thomashere.

Read the full text of the resolution filed against Justice Samuel Alitohere.

Cosponsors:Representatives Barbara Lee (CA-12), Rashida Tlaib (MI-12), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Delia Ramirez (IL-3), Maxwell Frost (FL-10), Ilhan Omar (MN-5), Jamaal Bowman (NY-16), Jasmine Crockett (TX-30), Mark Takano (CA-39), Melanie Stansbury (NM-01), Nydia Velázquez (NY-07), Greg Casar (TX-35), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-07), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Veronica Escobar (TX-16), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Cori Bush (MO-01), Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Steve Cohen (TN-9)

Endorsers:Court Accountability, Free Speech for People, Get Free, MoveOn, NextGen America, Our Revolution, People’s Parity Project, Revolving Door Project, UltraViolet, Women’s March, Take Back The Court, The Student Borrower Protection Center, Public Wise

###==
Title: AOC, Raskin Introduce Legislation Imposing Gift Ban on Supreme Court Justices
Date: June 26, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.– This week,Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) andRepresentative Jamie Raskin (MD-08)introduced theHigh Court Gift Ban Actto prohibit Supreme Court justices from receiving gifts valued at more than $50, marking a significant step towards restoring faith and integrity in the embattled Roberts Court.

“It's simple, the Supreme Court—which holds the immense power to shape our rights and freedoms—is embroiled in a major corruption crisis. It is appalling that the members of the highest court in the land have been accepting millions of dollars in unreported gifts and transactions from parties with interests before the court. The High Court Gift Ban Act is a commonsense solution to address the deeply troubling and unethical influence dark money is having on our nation's highest judicial body. This is not about politics—it's about safeguarding the strength and integrity of our democracy,”said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez.

“The Supreme Court is the highest court in the land but has the lowest ethical standards, which means pay-to-play billionaires, right-wing dark money groups and carbon-emitting special interests have freedom to purchase the best justice money can buy,”said Rep. Raskin.“Congress can’t stand idly by as this emboldened and imperious Court pursues a lawless right-wing agenda and strips our citizens of their Constitutional rights. Our legislation is an essential first step in bringing some accountability to, and restoring the integrity and reputation of, the Supreme Court.”

The legislation bans justices from receiving gifts valued at more than $50 in a single instance or more than $100 in aggregate over the course of a year. It would also cap gifts of personal hospitality, which are currently unregulated, at a value equal to the tax threshold for personal gifts, currently about $18,000. This brings the Supreme Court in line with similar ethical standards applying to Members of Congress and other federal officials.

Fix the Court's Gabe Roth said: “In response to this bill, Supreme Court justices and lower court judges might say, 'We already have gift rules!' which may technically be true, but given the jet-sized loopholes in the existing laws and regulations, aren't they more like 'gift suggestions'? This bill fixes that by banning the acceptance of gifts by judicial officers, significantly narrowing the personal hospitality exemption and sending a clear message: all government officials, no matter which branch they serve in, must follow the highest of ethical standards. I'm grateful to the drafters and co-sponsors for bringing the proposal to light.”

“While the Supreme Court’s corruption crisis continues to grow, the High Court Gift Ban Act offers a commonsense solution by asking that Justices be held to the same gift rules as sitting members of Congress. This is a no-brainer bill that everyone who believes in ethics and accountability should support,”said Accountable.US president Caroline Ciccone. “We’re proud to endorse this important piece of legislation, introduced by leaders Rep. Raskin and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, and the other original cosponsors, to restore some semblance of integrity and legitimacy to our nation’s highest court.”

“Supreme Court justices like Clarence Thomas shouldn't be able to accept gifts like extravagant vacations, private jet travel, or luxury RVs, particularly from billionaires with interests before them. The High Court Gift Ban Act would put fair limits on what gifts the justices can accept. This common-sense legislation would simply subject justices to the same ethics rules that other government officials have followed for decades, and in a sane world it would garner broad bipartisan support. We applaud Congressman Raskin and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership in working to restore the integrity of the judiciary,”said Alex Aronson, Executive Director, Court Accountability.

“Americans deserve a Supreme Court that rules impartially and free from conflicts of interest,” saidAaron Scherb, senior director of legislative affairs at Common Cause. “Common Cause was one of the first to sound the alarm about previously unreported gifts by Supreme Court justices in the early 2010s, and it’s only gotten worse since then. We commend the leadership of Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez for introducing the High Court Gift Ban Act to ensure that Supreme Court justices would have to abide by the same gift rules as many other government employees already do, and we urge Congress to swiftly pass this bill.”

“We prohibit lavish gifts to pretty much everyone in the federal government, whether an intern or a senator, for obvious reasons. Why would some of the most powerful and least accountable members of our government be any different? It’s like slapping a ‘bribe me’ sign on the doors of the Supreme Court. Subjecting the justices to the same anti-corruption rules as everyone else should be the biggest no-brainer of all time. Every lawmaker in Congress should follow Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez’s lead in supporting this commonsense bill,”said Sarah Lipton-Lubet, president of Take Back the Court Action Fund.

“By accepting—and refusing to disclose—millions of dollars worth of gifts, right-wing Supreme Court justices have created a crisis of confidence in our highest court,”said End Citizens United // Let America Vote Action Fund President Tiffany Muller. “The High Court Gift Ban Act addresses this corruption by capping the value of gifts justices can receive, effectively closing a giant loophole. This legislation is a crucial step towards stopping billionaires from using blatant pay-to-play schemes to buy outcomes at the Supreme Court. We thank Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez for their continued work to root out corruption and reform the Supreme Court.”

Ben Clements, Chairman and Senior Legal Advisor, Free Speech For People said, “Public officials -- from Members of Congress to governors to plumbing inspectors -- are prohibited from taking gifts of substantial value, while Supreme Court justices are accepting millions of dollars worth of gifts from billionaires seeking to influence their decisions.  The Court’s failure to police its own members, while simultaneously abdicating its duty to uphold the Constitution, in favor of protecting the interests of the rich and powerful, demonstrates the urgent need for Congressional oversight.  Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez’s proposed gift ban is an essential first step in reigning in a dangerously rogue and corrupt Supreme Court.”

“Across the political spectrum, Americans are eager for Congress to use its power to stop the Supreme Court from playing by its own outrageous rules. We thank Reps. Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez for introducing the High Court Gift Ban Act and for their fearless leadership in reining in a Court that appears utterly uninterested in following even the most basic ethics standards,”said Maggie Joe Buchanan, Managing Director of Demand Justice.

“The U.S. Supreme Court should be the epitome of ethical standards; that is what is required for our democracy to sustain itself. Yet increasingly certain members are defying that moral and legal north star. A high court that sets its own ethics rules and sees no problem with judges being wined and dined by the wealthy and well-connected is an insult to the American people it is supposed to serve. Rep. Raskin’s High Court Gift Ban Act would establish a commonsense ban on gifts to Supreme Court justices. This is something all Americans, no matter their politics, should agree on. Congress should pass this bill as soon as possible and finally confront the corruption and conflicts that erode the essence of the judicial system, and with it, democracy itself,”said Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers.

“The Supreme Court is mired in an ethical crisis. By stopping luxury gifts to the justices and holding the Court to the same standard as Congress, this bill would restore some trust in our nation’s highest court,”said Brett Edkins, Managing Director for Politics and Political Affairs at Stand Up America.“The High Court Gift Ban Act would close ethical loopholes exploited by Justices Thomas and Alito to enrich themselves and live like their billionaire benefactors. We applaud Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez for championing this critical reform.”

“The highest court should not be held to the lowest standard. Rampant acceptance of luxury travel and other gifts have made clear that the Supreme Court cannot police itself - and so it’s high time the Court bring itself in line with every other branch of government where acceptance of such lavish gifts is prohibited. We applaud Congressman Raskin’s introduction of the High Court Gift Ban Act today. It is a sensible proposal needed to protect the independence of the judiciary,”said Sarah Turberville, Director of The Constitution Project at the Project On Government Oversight.

“The repeated ethics scandals plaguing the Supreme Court shows how easily justices can accept gifts from well-funded activists with impunity, allowing them to buy and sell access to the highest court in the land,"said Debra Perlin, Policy Director at Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.“Supreme Court justices should be bound by ethical rules like every other government employee. The High Court Gift Ban Act, introduced by Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez, aims to fix this by instituting clear standards that would govern the solicitation and acceptance of gifts by judicial officers, including Supreme Court Justices. Importantly, this legislation would cap the value of gifts they are allowed to receive. We applaud the introduction of this bill and urge Congress to pass it swiftly.”

“We applaud Reps. Jamie Raskin and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez for introducing the “High Court Gift Ban” which will cap the value of gifts Supreme Court justices are allowed to receive and bring them in line with rules that govern members of Congress.  This bill will provide stricter ethics rules for Supreme Court justices, subjecting them to the same ethical standards governing every other high-ranking public servant. We call on Congress to quickly pass the “High Court Gift Ban.” Additionally, we need the Senate to continue to confirm more ethical, diverse, fair-minded, and highly-qualified judicial nominees who possess a demonstrated record of protecting the rights of all people in order to bolster accountability and transparency and enhance public trust in our judiciary”said Angel Padilla, Vice President for Strategy & Policy, National Women's Law Center.

“We extend our heartfelt thanks to Representatives Raskin and Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership and dedication to preserving judicial impartiality and upholding constitutional values,”said Annie Laurie Gaylor, Board Chair, FFRF Action Fund.  “Prohibiting federal judges from accepting substantial gifts is crucial for ensuring that judges are not influenced by external sources. They need to make decisions based on the law and facts, rather than personal gain. Such impartiality is fundamental to upholding the essential wall of separation between state and church, because it ensures that biases do not corrupt judicial decisions.”

The Supreme Court—unlike the rest of the federal judiciary, Congress, and executive branch officers and employees—does not have a binding code of ethics. As reported inProPublicaand elsewhere, this loophole has enabled special interests to flood the Court with gifts worth tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars like luxury vacations or boarding school tuition for relatives. TheHigh Court Gift Ban Actseeks to reverse course on these patterns of conduct with a basic, blanket ban on accepting gifts.

TheHigh Court Gift Ban Actis cosponsored by Representatives Nikki Budzinski (IL-13), André Carson (IN-07), Sean Casten (IL-06), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Angie Craig (MN-2), Jasmine Crockett (TX-30), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Valerie Foushee (NC-4), Robert Garcia (CA-42), Dan Goldman           (NY-10), Jonathan Jackson (IL-01), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Daniel Kildee (MI-05), Barbara Lee (CA-12), Summer Lee (PA-12), Kevin Mullin (CA-15), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ayanna Pressley (MA-07), Delia Ramirez (IL-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Adam Smith (WA-09), Melanie Stansbury (NM-01), Eric Swalwell (CA-14), Rashida Tlaib (MI-12), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Ritchie Torres (NY-15), and Nikema Williams (GA-05).

TheHigh Court Gift Ban Actis endorsed by leading advocacy organizations from an array of backgrounds, including Accountable.US; AFT; Alliance for Justice; American Humanist Association; Center for American Progress; Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW); Clean Elections Texas (CETex); Common Cause; Courage California; Court Accountability; Courts Matter Illinois; Demand Justice; DemCast USA; Demos Action; End Citizens United/Let America Vote Action Fund; Enough of Gun Violence; Equality California; Faithful Democracy; Fix the Court; Free Speech For People; FFRF Action Fund; Get Money Out – Maryland; Greenpeace USA; Indivisible; League of Conservation Voters; Michiganders for Fair & Transparent Elections; MoveOn; National Association of Consumer Advocates; National Association of Social Workers; National Women's Law Center; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice; Ohio Fair Courts Alliance; P Street; People For the American Way; People Power United; Project on Government Oversight; Public Citizen; Reproductive Freedom for All; Secular Coalition for America; Secure Elections Network; Stand Up America; Supreme Court Integrity Project; Take Back the Court Action Fund; True North Research and Walking To Fix Our Democracy.

On June 11, the legislators also hosted aroundtablewith expert panelists, including Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), entitled “High Court, Low Standards, and Dark Money: Flagging a Supreme Court Ethics Crisis in America,” to examine corruption on the court. On June 20, theywrote a letterto Chief Justice John Roberts to learn what immediate action he will take to restore public trust in the Court amidst severe ethical conflicts.###==
Title: AOC, Raskin Demand Answers from Chief Justice Roberts Amid Deepening Supreme Court Ethics Crisis
Date: June 20, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.— On June 20, 2024,Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Vice Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Accountability joinedCongressman Jamie Raskin (MD-08),Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Accountability, to send aletterto U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts calling on him to make clear what steps, if any, he is taking to investigate allegations of serious ethical misconduct by conservative Justices on the Supreme Court.

“We write with alarm about the deepening ethics crisis at the Supreme Court of the United States, which is turning into a full-blown legitimacy crisis.  You have repeatedly asked Congress and the American people to trust Justices of the Supreme Court to police their own conduct, assuring us that ‘[e]very Justice seeks to follow high ethical standards . . . and is committed to the common interest in preserving the Court’s vital role as an impartial tribunal governed by the rule of law.’  Yet, over the past year, revelations by investigative reporters and Senate investigators have established that certain Justices have abused that trust,”wrote Ranking Member Raskin and Vice Ranking Member Ocasio-Cortez

In today’sletter,the legislatorsquestioned what steps Chief Justice Roberts is taking to investigate flagrant instances of partisan activity and lack of disclosure brought to light by investigative journalists and Senate investigators. The Court’s apparent refusal to investigate these allegations of misconduct by Justice Thomas and Justice Alito raise significant concerns that the Court is unable, or perhaps just unwilling, to investigate and police its own conduct to ensure that Justices comply with their statutory and constitutional obligations.

Recentpublic reportinghas demonstrated that, once again, Justice Clarence Thomas hasconcealedhis receipt of numerous lavish vacations from private megadonors—including individuals with business before the Supreme Court—in blatant violation of even the Court’s minimal disclosure requirements.  Inrecentweeks, Justice Thomas amended his financial disclosures to addtwo 2019 luxury tripsreportedly worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, funded by billionaire activist Harlan Crow.  Days later, the Senate Judiciary Committee uncoveredthree additional tripspaid for by Mr. Crow, that Justice Thomas still has failed to report on his financial disclosure forms.In the last two decades, Justice Thomas has received giftsvalued at $2.4 millionat least.

News reports alleging clear instances of partisan activity by Justice Samuel Alito and Justice Thomas—who have refused to recuse themselves from two cases related to the January 6, 2021, insurrection and the “Stop the Steal” movement—also raise glaring conflicts of interest and questionable impartiality problems.

Last month,reporting revealedthat between the January 6, 2021, insurrection at the Capitol and President Biden’s inauguration on January 20, 2021, Justice Alito and his spouse flew an upside-down American flag outside of their personal residence, in an apparent show of support for the “Stop the Steal” movement.  Additional reporting has since uncovered other instances of partisan activity by Justice Alito, from displaying otherpolitical flagsto suggesting he is involved in an ideological battle with “the Left,” according toaudio recordings.

Justice Thomas also hastiesto the “Stop the Steal” movement, as his wife, Ginni Thomas, helped lead the “Stop the Steal” campaign, attended the January 6, 2021, rally near the White House, and actively strategized with then-President Trump’s chief of staff about overturning the results of the 2020 elections—all of which suggests serious bias and conflicts of interest for cases before the Supreme Court.

“While the Judicial Conference and the Supreme Court both have the ability and, in certain circumstances a statutory obligation, to investigate potential ethical violations by Justices of the Supreme Court, these revelations, which call into question both the integrity and impartiality of two sitting Supreme Court Justices, came only as a result of the diligent work of the press and Congress.. . .We are therefore writing to you in your double role as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and presiding officer of the Judicial Conference, to understand what efforts, if any, the Court and the Conference have undertaken in light of the allegations of serious ethical violations by Justices raised by these reports,”Ranking Member Raskin and Vice Ranking Member Ocasio-Cortez added.

On June 11, 2024,Ranking Member RaskinandVice Ranking Member Ocasio-Cortez led Committee Democrats in examining the private and public corruption of the Supreme Court in aroundtabletitled “High Court, Low Standards, and Dark Money:  Flagging a Supreme Ethics Crisis in America.”

Clickhereto readtoday’s letter.###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Submits 9 Amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act
Date: June 12, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — Ahead of the vote on the Fiscal Year 2025 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA),Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)submitted nine amendments that collectively seek to end practices from the United States that have contributed to human rights abuses.

Oneamendment— requiring the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the Central Intelligence Agency, to conduct a declassification review of documents related to the U.S.’s involvement in Chile’s coup of 1973 — was made in order and will be voted on in the upcoming week.

Of the other eight amendments submitted,one amendmentwould block the sale of weapons to the Saudi unit that killed journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The U.S. provided training approved by the State Department to the Saudi operatives responsible for Khashoggi’s murder, highlighting the grave danger of U.S. military partnerships with countries engaging in human rights abuses.

Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortezalso introduced two amendments focused on the U.S. relationship with Colombia. First, shecalled on the Departments of Defense and State to produce a reporton past human rights violations in Colombia, including an overview of the United States—Colombia military partnership between 1980 and 2010. Additionally, the Congresswoman reintroduced heramendmentto prevent any U.S. funds from supporting aerial fumigation of crops in Colombia, which has resulted in devastating health and environmental consequences for the Colombian people.

The Congresswomanintroduced three more amendments focused on U.S. relations with other Latin American countries.One amendmentrequires the Secretary of State to conduct a study on the feasibility of providing debt relief to countries in the Amazon region in exchange for commitments to conserve key areas of the Amazon Rainforest. Additionally,the Congresswomanintroduced anamendmentrequiring that the Secretary of Defense submit a certification addressing human and civil rights violations in Peru before continuing certain cooperation with the government of Peru. Thefinal amendmentrequires the Secretary of State to submit an unclassified report to Congress on an overview of the US-Brazil military partnership between 1964 and 1985.

The Congresswomanalso introduced two other amendments to address climate and environmental issues. Oneamendmentwould require a report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on the status of the Federal cleanup and decontamination process in the island municipalities of Vieques and Culebra, Puerto Rico. Rep. Ocasio-Cortez also submitted anamendmentrequiring consistent emissions reporting from the Department of Defense to address discrepancies in emissions reports to the United Nations and the United States Congress.==
Title: MONDAY: Rep. AOC To Host Livestream on “Antisemitism and the Fight for Democracy”
Date: June 7, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY— On Monday, June 10, 2024, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will host a livestream entitled “Antisemitism and the Fight for Democracy” in collaboration with leading experts on combating antisemitism.

Rep. Ocasio-Cortez will be joined by Stacy Burdett, former Vice President for Government Relations, Advocacy and Community Engagement at the Anti-Defamation League and Government and External Relations Director at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, and Amy Spitalnick, CEO of the Jewish Council for Public Affairs and former Executive Director of Integrity First for America which won a groundbreaking lawsuit against the neo-Nazis, white supremacists, and hate groups responsible for the 2017 violence in Charlottesville.

WHO:

—Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez

—Stacy Burdett, Jewish Community Advocate Against Antisemitism and Bigotry

—Amy Spitalnick, CEO of the Jewish Council for Public Affairs

WHAT:Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez hosts a livestream on antisemitism and the fight for democracy.

WHEN:Monday, June 10 at 12:30 p.m. ET

WHERE:The livestream will be accessible virtually at @RepAOC onTwitter,Facebook, andYouTube

Members of the media are asked to direct any questions toaoc.press@mail.house.gov

==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Submits Funding Requests for 15 Community Projects
Date: May 17, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — Today,Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)requested federal funding for 15 community projects that would serve New York's 14th Congressional District. The proposed projects include investments in violence interruption, green infrastructure to mitigate flooding, youth literacy programming in the South Bronx, and more. The House Appropriations Committee solicited these requests from all Members as part of their annual spending process."Our office submitted funding requests for 15 community projects to the House Appropriations Committee that will directly benefit our communities in The Bronx and Queens. These projects include investments in violence interruption, green infrastructure to mitigate flooding, youth literacy programming in the South Bronx, and more,”said Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.“I want to thank our community and government partners who collaborated with our office during the submission process. While many non-profits were restricted from eligibility this year, we worked with Senator Schumer and Senator Gillibrand's offices to ensure they receive consideration in the Senate. We look forward to securing funding for all 15 projects and the timely passage of Fiscal Year 2025 Appropriations Bills."

The full list of nominees from NY-14 can be found below.

Under guidelines issued by the House Appropriations Committee, each Representative may request up to 15 projects in their community to be considered for fiscal year 2025 funding. Funding is restricted to a limited number of project categories, and only state and local governments and eligible non-profit entities are permitted to receive funding.

Additional information on the guidelines governing Community Project Funding can be foundhere.

To inform our funding requests, our office posted widely about the opportunity and scheduled conversations with eligible groups to discuss possible projects and field questions. This year, due to a shortened timeline and new committee guidelines, we conducted targeted outreach to eligible entities. We then encouraged groups to complete the appropriate forms on our website for further consideration.

Some of the considerations for strong proposals include depth of project planning, clear objectives and scope of work, demonstration of community support, and ability to manage federal grants.

After further discussion and input from the Congresswoman and subcommittee staff, we arrived at the fifteen projects listed below.

If an organization’s project was not selected, there may be an opportunity for funding next year, though Congressional leaders have not yet confirmed that this process will repeat for fiscal year 2026.

Rep. Ocasio Cortez's Community Project Funding Grants:

Bronx Defenders - Improving Justice in the Criminal Legal System Through Holistic Defense

$1,500,000

360 E 161st Street Bronx NY 10451

The Bronx Defenders requests $1,500,000 to help clients avoid the most devastating consequences of the criminal legal system by resolving cases before an arrest whenever possible, facilitating safe surrender to law enforcement when necessary, and conducting early investigations into potential charges and bail considerations. The resources at the disposal of the police and the state at all stages of a criminal investigation are vast; by partnering with the Early Defense program, low-income Bronx residents can mount a robust defense.

New York City Department of Environmental Protection - J.H.S. 123X Green Infrastructure

$1,325,380.32

1025 Morrison Avenue, Bronx, NY 10472

New York City Department of Environmental Protection requests $1,325,380.32 to build out a green infrastructure project on school grounds, including the installation of stormwater detention tanks in school parking lots. This is a combined sewer overflow reduction project that would improve harbor water quality. Such infrastructure can also help alleviate flooding by managing stormwater and keeping it out of the sewer system during storms.

New York State Metropolitan Transit Authority - Westchester Square Station ADA Upgrades

$5,000,000

Westchester Square Station, Bronx, NY 10461

New York State Metropolitan Transit Authority (NYSMTA) requests $5,000,000 to make the station ADA-accessible by installing elevators and other accessibility elements. Station work also includes modification of platforms, mezzanine areas, and stairs to provide accessible paths of travel to both platforms.

New York City Department of Environmental Protection - Green Infrastructure Improvement

$250,000

Throughout the New York 14th Congressional District

New York City Department of Environmental Protection requests $250,000 to install Green infrastructure throughout the district to help reduce combined sewer overflows and improve harbor water quality. Such infrastructure will also help alleviate flooding by managing stormwater and keeping it out of the sewer system during storms. This will also help in improving approximately 400 rain gardens and other green infrastructure assets in the district.

Bronx River Alliance, Soundview Coastal Resiliency and Community Development

$750,000

One Bronx River Parkway, Bronx, NY 10462

Bronx River Alliance requests $750,000 to to Improve Coastal Resilience Soundview is a locus of coastal resiliency with multiple projects underway to provide storm surge protection, habitat restoration, and water quality improvements. This project would convene the leading groups working on these projects to share best practices and lessons learned, and to develop a coordinated approach to community and youth development. This coordination will result in enhanced community-based stewardship of these vital projects and broad public education about their importance.

New York State Metropolitan Transit Authority - Parkchester Station ADA Upgrades

$5,000,000

Parkchester Station, Bronx, NY 10472

New York State Metropolitan Transit Authority (NYSMTA) requests $5,000,000 to make the station ADA-accessible by installing elevators and other accessibility elements. Station work also includes modification of platforms, mezzanine areas, and stairs to provide accessible paths of travel to both platforms.

New York State Metropolitan Transit Authority - Broadway Station ADA Upgrades

$5,000,000

Broadway Station, Queens, NY 11106

New York State Metropolitan Transit Authority (NYSMTA) requests $5,000,000 to make the station ADA-accessible by installing elevators and other accessibility elements. Station work also includes modification of platforms, mezzanine areas, and stairs to provide accessible paths of travel to both platforms.

Community Capacity Development Youth Builder Model

$262,000

89-36 Sutphin Boulevard, suite 303, Jamaica, NY 11435

Community Capacity Development requests $262,000 for their Hyper Mentorship Youth Builder Model, which is a mission devoted to preventing teenagers and young adults from incarceration through community building. This model develops authentic relationships in the community by having assigned mentors and a progress checklist of activities to be followed that are geared toward developing health habits. The program aims to provide support, guidance, and opportunities for high-risk youth, focusing on holistic development, education, entrepreneurship, workforce development, and community engagement.

New York City Department of Environmental Protection - Lead Service Line Replacement

$4,000,000

Throughout the New York 14th Congressional District

New York City Department of Environmental Protection requests $4,000,000 to supplement the launch of a Lead Service Line Replacement Program to provide free lead service line replacements to some eligible property owners. This funding would replace approximately 300 lead service lines, bringing clean drinking water to families across the NY-14th.

New York Hall of Science - Join Artemis: Fly to the moon with NYSCI

$1,199,961

47-01 111th St, Queens, NY 11368

The New York Hall of Science requests $1,199,961 to develop and implement a range of programs to engage learners of all ages with the Artemis III launch, with a focus on the many scientists and engineers on earth who contribute to making this mission possible. In September 2026, NASA’s Artemis III Mission will take a diverse team of four astronauts to the moon, becoming the first people to return to the lunar surface in over fifty years and the first to explore the lunar South Pole.

City Island Oyster Reef - Oyster Reef Capacitation

$403,491

88 Horton St, Bronx, NY 10464

City Island Oyster Reef (CIOR) requests $403,491 to reestablish a resilient ecosystem in western Long Island Sound by creating two oyster reef habitats and thereby increasing oyster populations in the waters surrounding City Island in the Bronx. City Island’s location for these oyster reefs makes it a critical hub and essential connection between reef restoration sites to the west in the East River, at Soundview, and SUNY Maritime College, as well as to existing oyster populations in Long Island Sound east of City Island.

New York City Department of Education - Literacy Hub at P.S. 150

$720,000

920 East 167 Street, Bronx, NY 10459

The New York City Department of Education requests $720,000 to revitalize an underutilized library space, transforming it into a vibrant literacy hub that catalyzes academic achievement and community engagement.

New York City Housing Authority - Throggs Neck Fire Alarm System Upgrades

$3,000,000

2824 Schley Ave, Bronx, NY 10465

New York City Housing Authority requests $3,000,000 to identify, remove, and replace all existing fire detection system components, both operable and inoperable, as per the NYC Fire Code.

New York City Housing Authority - Castle Hill Fire Alarm System Upgrades

$1,500,000

645 Castle Hill Ave, Bronx, NY 10473

New York City Housing Authority requests $1,500,000 to identify, remove, and replace all existing fire detection system components, both operable and inoperable, as per the NYC Fire Code.

New York City Department of Transportation - Southern Boulevard Bus Stops Under the El

$5,000,000

Southern Boulevard, The Bronx, NY 10459

The New York City Department of Transportation requests $5,000,000 to construct bus bulbs, pedestrian safety improvements, and accessibility upgrades at six intersections on Southern Boulevard under the elevated 2/5 between 167th and 174th Streets. Bus Stops located beneath elevated subway structures present a unique set of design challenges. Because subway columns at many locations prevent buses from reaching the curb, riders are forced to wait for the bus on the street, resulting in inaccessible and unsafe boarding conditions.==
Title: TRANSCRIPT: Ocasio-Cortez Delivers Floor Speech Honoring Rear Admiral Michael A. Alfultis
Date: May 17, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
View the Speech

REPRESENTATIVE ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ:

Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Rear Admiral and SUNY Maritime College President Michael A. Alfultis for his years of service and to celebrate his retirement.

President Alfultis served for 28 years in the U.S. Coast Guard, eventually rising from Captain to Rear Admiral. After retiring from service, Admiral Alfultis began teaching at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and then went on to become Director and Chief Administrative Officer at the University of Connecticut. His consecutive years of academic and professional leadership culminated in his tenure as the 11th President of SUNY Maritime College.

President Alfultis' leadership has transformed SUNY Maritime College and shaped the future of the maritime workforce. His tenure has been marked by significant achievements, including a $100M investment in institutional organizations such as the Institute for Community Resiliency and Climate Adaptation and the establishment of the Center for Excellence for Offshore Energy. I was proud to have supported the Center for Excellence for Offshore Energy with an $800,000 appropriation to support its curriculum development.

As his time as President of SUNY Maritime College ends later this month, I would like to thank President Alfultis personally and on behalf of our district for his years of service to our country, academic institutions, and community. We wish you fair winds and following Seas.###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Statement Applauding New FERC Transmission Rule
Date: May 14, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — Following the introduction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) Grid Expansion Rule,Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources,released the following statement:

“I applaud the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for issuing a final rule that will open the door for a stronger transmission system in our country - one that’s more resilient and better equipped to efficiently deliver large amounts of renewably over long distances. Our current system is increasingly vulnerable to widespread power outages impacting those living in The Bronx, Queens, and many other communities.

My colleagues and I introduced theCHARGE Actand theConnect the Grid Actand consistently urged the FERC to act because our transmission grid plays a crucial role in meeting the growing demand for grid resilience and renewable energy across the U.S. While our legislation is still needed in the face of a worsening climate crisis, each and every time we move the needle it matters.”

In January 2024,the Congresswomanjoined 136 colleagues in sending a letter to the FERC urging them to strengthen and finalize the proposed transmission planning and cost allocation rule.

According to the FERC, thefinal rulewill implement new requirements to transform how transmission providers conduct long-term planning for regional transmission facilities and acquire funding.

Underscoring their commitment to the cause,Congresswoman Ocasio-CortezandSenator Ed Markey (D-MA) reintroduced theCHARGE Actin 2023 to enact a series of reforms through the FERC to accelerate a clean energy transition by supporting planning, transparency, competition, and oversight of transmission networks. They also introduced theConnect the Grid Actin February 2024, requiring the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) to build transmission and connect to the nation’s major electric grids.###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Neguse Lead Letter to Top Appropriators to Combat the Escalating Climate Crisis through the American Climate Corps Program
Date: May 7, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. - Following the announcement of the American Climate Corps registration hub,Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Representative Joe Neguse (CO-02),and 60 of their Democratic colleaguesled a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health & Human Services, and Educationin support of AmeriCorps’ Fiscal Year 2025 (FY25) proposal for $15 million in discretionary funding to the AmeriCorps Salaries and Expenses Account, designated to fund the American Climate Corps hub, and $23 million to the AmeriCorps Operations account for the American Climate Corps program.

In September 2023,Representative Ocasio-CortezandSenator Markeyled a letterto President Biden requesting the creation of an American Climate Corps and, on April 15, 2024,Representative Ocasio-Cortezjoined President Joe Biden to announce the opening of the firstAmerican Climate Corpsjob opportunities across the country. The program aims to train the next generation of leaders to tackle the climate crisis by offering opportunities to build clean energy and climate-resilient infrastructure.

“With deadly heat, dangerous floods, rising seas, and devastating wildfires ravaging our country, the climate crisis demands a whole-of-government response at an unprecedented scale. The American Climate Corps provides a crucial solution for developing the workforce of the future,”wrote the members.

“By leveraging the historic climate funding secured last Congress, using existing authorities, and coordinating across AmeriCorps and other relevant federal agencies, the American Climate Corps promises to unite its members in an effort to fight climate change, build community resilience, support environmental justice, and develop career pathways to good-paying union jobs focused on climate resilience and a clean economy,”they continued.

The letter was also signed by:Adams, Alma; Amo, Gabe; Balint, Becca; Barragán, Nanette; Blumenauer, Earl; Blunt Rochester, Lisa; Bowman, Jamaal; Casar, Greg; Chu, Judy; Clarke, Yvette; Cleaver, Emanuel; Connolly, Gerald; Crockett, Jasmine; Davis, Danny; DeSaulnier, Mark; Doggett, Lloyd; Escobar, Veronica; Evans, Dwight; Frost, Maxwell; García, Jesús; Garcia, Robert; Gomez, Jimmy; Green, Al; Grijalva, Raúl; Horsford, Steven; Houlahan, Chrissy; Huffman, Jared; Ivey, Glenn; Jayapal, Pramila; Johnson, Henry; Khanna, Ro; Kim, Andy; Krishnamoorthi, Raja; Lee, Summer; Levin, Mike; Lieu, Ted; Lynch, Stephen; Magaziner, Seth; McGarvey, Morgan; McGovern, James; Moulton, Seth; Mullin, Kevin; Nadler, Jerrold; Neguse, Joe; Norton, Eleanor; Ocasio-Cortez, Alexandria; Omar, Ilhan; Pascrell, Bill; Plaskett, Stacey; Porter, Katie; Pressley, Ayanna; Ramirez, Delia; Raskin, Jamie; Sánchez, Linda; Sarbanes, John; Scanlon, Mary; Schakowsky, Janice; Stansbury, Melanie; Takano, Mark; Tlaib, Rashida; Velázquez, Nydia; Wilson, Frederica

A copy of the letter can be foundhere.###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Castro, Velázquez, Doggett, Jayapal, Khanna, Balint, Casar, Takano, McGovern, Lee, Blumenauer, Chu, Johnson, Carson, Watson Coleman, García, Jackson, and Tokuda Statement on the Israel Security Supplemental
Date: April 20, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. - Today, nearly 20 members of Congress —Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Nydia Velázquez (NY-07), Lloyd Doggett (TX-37), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Becca Balint (VT-AL), Greg Casar (TX-35), Mark Takano (CA-39), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Barbara Lee (CA-12), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Judy Chu (CA-28), Hank Johnson (GA-04), André Carson (IN-07), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Jesús "Chuy" García (IL-04), Jonathan Jackson (IL-01),andJill Tokuda (HI-02), released the following statement after voting against H.R. 8034, the Israel Security Supplemental Appropriations Act:

“This is a moment of great consequence – the world is watching. Today is, in many ways, Congress’ first official vote where we can weigh in on the direction of this war. If Congress votes to continue to supply offensive military aid, we make ourselves complicit in this tragedy.

“Our votes against H.R. 8034 are votes against supplying more offensive weapons that could result in more killings of civilians in Rafah and elsewhere. We believe strongly in Israel’s right to self-defense and have joined colleagues previously in affirming our shared commitment.

“All of us support strengthening the Iron Dome and other defense systems and we are committed to a sovereign, safe, and secure future for Israel. To protect that future, we believe the United States must help achieve a ceasefire that allows hostages to be freed, humanitarian aid to be delivered, and peace talks to begin.

“Benjamin Netanyahu appears willing to sacrifice the hostages while inflicting extraordinary suffering on the people of Gaza. He is willing to expand this conflict to preserve his power at the expense of Israel’s safety. In recent weeks, reports have indicated that Netanyahu is moving closer to a full-scale invasion of the southern Gaza town of Rafah, where more than a million Palestinians have taken shelter. When faced with the question of whether to provide offensive aid to further this conflict, we believe there is a moral imperative to find another path.

“Most Americans do not want our government to write a blank check to further Prime Minister Netanyahu’s war in Gaza. The United States needs to help Israel find a path to win the peace.”

###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Statement on House Republican Incompetence
Date: April 16, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released the following statement as House Republicans schedule a series of floor votes on resolutions in response to the Iranian military attack on Israel following Israel’s attack on an Iranian Consulate:

“Following last weekend’s unprecedented response by Iran to Israel’s attack on its consulate, the Republican Majority is explicitly leveraging a series of bills to further escalate tensions in the Middle East. This is a blatant attempt to distract from their own incompetence. The country and the world need real leadership from the House of Representatives in this moment, not resolutions designed purposefully to increase the likelihood of a deadly regional war or worse. I will oppose any cynical effort to further inflame tensions, destroy a path to peace in the region, and further divide the American people."###==
Title: Noguchi Museum Director to Attend Joint Meeting of Congress with Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida as Guest of Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez
Date: April 10, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — Today,Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez(NY-14) announced thatAmy Hau, Director of the Noguchi Museumin Queens, will be her guest for a joint meeting of Congress on April 11th, 2024 where Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida will discuss the diplomatic relationship between the United States and Japan.

Hau emigrated with her family from Hong Kong to Queens when she was nine years old. She joined the Noguchi Museum as Director in January of this year. Hau launched her career at the museum in 1986 as an assistant to Japanese American sculptor Isamu Noguchi, the museum’s founder. Hau has also served as vice chair of the Queens Community Board 1 since 2014 and is on the board of the Asian American Arts Alliance.==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Adeyemo Visit Casa Yurumein, Urge New Yorkers to Utilize Free IRS Direct File Tool Ahead of 2024 Tax Deadline
Date: April 5, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY— On Friday, April 5th, 2024,Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)andDeputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemovisited Casa Yurumein, a Garífuna (Afro-Central American) cultural center in The Bronx to encourage eligible New Yorkers to save time and money by using the new, free IRS Direct File tool.

The officials were joined by members of the Garífuna community in The Bronx as well as representatives from the Central American Black Organization andHondurans Against AIDS.

“For years, people have experienced unexpected paywalls and difficulties while using private companies to e-file their taxes. The Direct File pilot program cuts out the middleman, allowing millions of Americans the opportunity to file their taxes directly with the IRS,”said Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.“The 2024 Tax Deadline is quickly approaching. I urge New York residents with simple tax needs to take advantage of this free tool to save valuable time and money this year.”

“Thanks to President Biden‘s Inflation Reduction Act, millions of Americans now have the option to file their taxes for free and in a simple way directly with the IRS. That’s time and money Americans can invest in their families and communities.”Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo said.“To ensure taxpayers get their maximum refund, Direct File shows you the numbers every step of the way. As we enter the home stretch of filing season, we encourage New Yorkers and Americans in the 11 states participating this year to go to directfile.irs.gov and see if they can save money and time.”

On Thursday, April 4th, 2024,Representative Ocasio-Cortezhosted a liveDirect File webinardemonstrating how to use the program.

Direct File is easy to use and allows approximately 1/3 of taxpayers in 12 participating states, including an estimated 2.8 million New York taxpayers, to file their taxes for free, directly with the IRS for the first time. New Yorkers can check their eligibility and file today atdirectfile.irs.gov.

IRS Direct File Video Overview

IRS Direct File Flyer in English

IRS Direct File Flyer in Spanish

###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Menendez, Espaillat Piden a la Administracion de Biden que Otorgue Estatus de Protección Temporal a los Ecuatorianos
Date: March 22, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.— Hoy, losRepresentantes Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Rob Menendez (NJ-8), y Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)lideraron a 24 miembros del Congreso en el envío de una carta a la administración Biden, pidiéndoles que otorguen a Ecuador una Designación de Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS).

Ecuador ha sido testigo de un fuerte aumento de la violencia en los últimos dos años, con muertes violentas que casi se duplicaron entre 2022 y 2023. El presidente Daniel Noboa declaró al país en "conflicto armado interno". Los grupos armados siguen amenazando a la prensa, las instituciones médicas, los líderes comunitarios y el público en general. "Aunque la Administración Biden ha ofrecido ayuda al Gobierno ecuatoriano, esto no aborda los más de 450.000 inmigrantes ecuatorianos que viven en los Estados Unidos. Además, Ecuador ha sido el segundo país de origen de solicitantes de asilo en la ciudad de Nueva York desde 2022,”dijeron los congresistas.

“A pesar de la inseguridad bien documentada que llevó a estos constituyentes a hacer el viaje peligroso a través de la Brecha del Darién, muchos de ellos están en proceso de expulsión y enfrentan una deportación inminente. Una designación de TPS permitiría a muchos en nuestra comunidad ecuatoriana respirar con alivio, ya que mantendría a las familias unidas y los haría elegibles para la autorización de trabajo para apoyarse a sí mismos. Debemos proteger a nuestros constituyentes ecuatorianos de la deportación a una zona de conflicto,"continuaron.

La carta está firmada conjuntamente por la Senadora Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) y los Representantes Joaquín Castro (TX-20), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Sylvia García (TX-29), Greg Casar (TX-35), Darren Soto (FL-09), Grace Meng (NY-06), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Jamaal Bowman (NY-16), Dan Goldman (NY-10), Delia Ramirez (IL-10), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Grace Napolitano (CA-31), Ilhan Omar (MN-05), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), James McGovern (MA-02), Cori Bush (MO-01), Jesus “Chuy” Garcia (IL-04), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Melanie Stansbury (NM-01), Jim Himes (CT-04), Melanie Stansbury (NM-01), and Jimmy Gomez (CA-34).

La carta completa está disponibleaquí.

A continuación figuran citas de organizaciones que respaldan este esfuerzo:

“Hoy pido a la Administración Biden-Harris que conceda inmediatamente el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS) a los ecuatorianos. Más de 210.000 ecuatorianos viven en la ciudad de Nueva York, incluidos 10.000 ecuatorianos recién llegados que actualmente están bajo nuestro cuidado. Una designación de TPS para los ecuatorianos en los Estados Unidos desbloquea protecciones invaluables para nuestros nuevos vecinos, incluyendo el acceso a solicitar autorización de empleo, por lo que nuestra economía local puede beneficiarse de sus habilidades y talentos, mientras que nuestros nuevos vecinos alcanzan la estabilidad,” dijoel Alcalde de la Ciudad de Nueva York, Eric Adams.“Esta protección vital también sirve para proteger a los ecuatorianos de los peligros a los que de otro modo tendrían que regresar a su país de origen, peligros que pude ver de primera mano el pasado otoño.”

"Llegué a este país hace más de 30 años buscando seguridad y protección. Desde entonces, he reconstruido mi vida y me he convertido en una parte esencial de mi comunidad en Queens, Nueva York. Insto a la administración Biden a designar el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS) para Ecuador,”dijo Vicente Mayorga, Organizador de Inmigración de Make the Road New York."El TPS para Ecuador es algo que deberían haberse hecho hace mucho tiempo para nuestros hermanos y hermanas ecuatorianos que ahora llaman a este país su hogar; les permitirá permanecer junto a sus seres queridos y los salvaguardará de la separación y la deportación. Mientras pedimos el TPS, nuestra lucha continúa para asegurar protecciones permanentes para todos los inmigrantes.""Estamos contentos y optimistas al enterarnos de esta carta dirigida al Departamento de Estado y al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional con el apoyo de varios miembros del Congreso, en la que solicitan que se designe el TPS para Ecuador; [lo que proporcionaría] un alivio migratorio para miles de ecuatorianos que les permitiría tener un permiso de trabajo y no ser deportados, para seguir contribuyendo al bienestar de nuestras familias..." dijoAntonio Arizaga, Presidente del Frente Unido de Inmigrantes Ecuatorianos. "Los ecuatorianos que vivimos en Estados Unidos contribuimos con nuestro esfuerzo físico e intelectual al desarrollo del país, y pagamos impuestos. Somos una comunidad honesta y trabajadora."

“El TPS nos facilita obtener trabajo digno,” dijoWalther Sinche, Presidente de la Alianza Ecuatoriana.“Nos protege mientras participamos en el dinamismo de la economía del país en el que hemos hecho nuestro hogar.”

==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Menendez, Espaillat Call on Biden Administration to Grant Temporary Protected Status for Ecuadorians
Date: March 22, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.— Today,Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY–14), Rob Menendez (NJ–8), and Adriano Espaillat (NY–13)led 24members of Congress in sending a letter to the Biden administration, asking them to grant Ecuadorians a Temporary Protected Status Designation.

Ecuador has seen a sharp rise in violence for the last couple of years, with violent deaths nearly doubling between 2022 and 2023. President Daniel Noboa declared the country to be in an “internal armed conflict.” Armed groups continue to threaten the press, medical institutions, community leaders, and the public at large. “While the Biden Administration has offered assistance to the Ecuadorian Government, this does not address the more than 450,000 Ecuadorian immigrants living in the United States. In addition, Ecuador has been the second-highest source country for asylum seekers in New York City since 2022,”wrote the lawmakers.

“Despite the well-documented insecurity that drove these constituents to make the perilous journey through the Darién Gap, many of them are in removal proceedings and face imminent deportation. A TPS designation would allow many in our Ecuadorian community to breathe a sigh of relief by keeping families together and making them eligible for work authorization to support themselves. We must protect our Ecuadorian constituents from deportation to a conflict zone,”they continued.

The letter is co-signed by Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) and Representatives Joaquin Castro (TX–20), Tony Cardenas (CA–29), Sylvia Garcia (TX–29), Greg Casar (TX–35), Darren Soto (FL–09), Grace Meng (NY–06), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Yvette Clarke (NY–09), Jamaal Bowman (NY–16), Dan Goldman (NY–10), Delia Ramirez (IL–10), Mike Quigley (IL–05), Grace Napolitano (CA–31), Ilhan Omar (MN–05), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), James McGovern (MA–02), Cori Bush (MO-01), Jesus “Chuy” Garcia (IL-04), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Melanie Stansbury (NM-01), Jim Himes (CT-04), Melanie Stansbury (NM-01), and Jimmy Gomez (CA-34).

The full letter is availablehere.

Quotes from endorsing organizations follow:

“Today, I  call on the Biden-Harris Administration to immediately grant Temporary Protected Status (TPS) to Ecuadorians. More than 210,000 Ecuadorians call New York City home, including 10,000 newly arrived Ecuadorians currently in our care. A TPS designation for Ecuadorians in the United States unlocks invaluable protections for our new neighbors, including access to apply for employment authorization, so our local economy can benefit from their skills and talents while our new neighbors reach stability,” saidNew York City Mayor Eric Adams.“This vital protection also serves to shield Ecuadorians from dangers they may otherwise have to return to in their homeland-dangers I saw firsthand last Fall.”

"I came to this country more than 30 years ago seeking safety and security. Since then, I have rebuilt my life and become an essential part of my community in Queens, New York. I urge the Biden administration to designate Temporary Protective Status (TPS) for Ecuador,” saidVicente Mayorga, Immigration Organizer at Make the Road New York. “TPS for Ecuador is long overdue for our Ecuadorian brothers and sisters who now call this country their home; it will allow them to remain together with loved ones and safeguard them from separation and deportation. As we call for TPS, our fight still continues to ensure permanent protections for all immigrants.”

“We are happy and hopeful to learn of this letter to the Department of State and the Department of Homeland Security with the support from several Members of Congress, in which they request that TPS be designated for Ecuador; [which would provide] immigration relief for thousands of Ecuadorians that would allow them to have a work permit and not be deported, to continue contributing to the well-being of our families…” saidAntonio Arizaga, President ofFrente Unido de Inmigrantes Ecuatorianos.“We Ecuadorians who live in the United States contribute with our physical and intellectual effort to the development of the country, and we pay taxes. We are an honest and hard-working community.”

“TPS makes it possible for us [Ecuadorians] to seek decent work,” saidWalther Sinchi, President ofAlianza Ecuatoriana.“It protects us, and helps us while we contribute to the dynamic economy of the country that we've made our home.”

###==
Title: TRANSCRIPT: Ocasio-Cortez Delivers Major Speech on Looming Famine in Gaza and Administration Response to the Crisis
Date: March 22, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
View the Speech

REPRESENTATIVE ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ:

Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Speaker, I know a man, a decent man, who said that “preventing genocide is an achievable goal, a goal that requires a level of government organization and engagement that matches in its intensity the brutality and efficiency required to carry out mass killing. Too often, these efforts have come too late, after the best and least costly opportunities to prevent them have been missed."

The man that said that was then-Vice President and now President Joseph Biden. And he was right.

Mr. Speaker, I rise to say that such a time is now. As we speak, in this moment, 1.1 million innocents in Gaza are at famine’s door. A famine that is being intentionally precipitated through the blocking of food and global humanitarian assistance by leaders in the Israeli government.

This is a mass starvation of people, engineered and orchestrated following the killing of another 30,000, 70 percent of whom were women and children killed.

There is hardly a single hospital left. And this was all accomplished, much of this accomplished, with U.S. resources and weapons. If you want to know what an unfolding genocide looks like, open your eyes. It looks like the forced famine of 1.1 million innocents. It looks like thousands of children eating grass as their bodies consume themselves, while trucks of food are slowed and halted just miles away. It looks like good and decent people who do nothing. Or too little. Too late.

It is against United States law to provide weapons to forces who block United States humanitarian assistance. And that is exactly what is happening right now. So much so that the President himself stated, during the State of the Union, that the United States must and will be building its own port to let aid through. It will be too late.

The time is now to force compliance with U.S. law and the standards of humanity. And fulfill our obligations to the American people to suspend the transfer of U.S. weapons to the Israeli government in order to stop and prevent further atrocity.

Honoring our alliances does not mean facilitating mass killing. We cannot hide from our responsibility any longer. Blocking assistance from one’s closest allies to starve a million people is not unintentional.

We have a responsibility to prove the value of global democracy, enshrined in the upholding of civil society, rule of law, and commitment to human and civil rights.

This is not just about Israel or Gaza. This is about us. The world will never be the same. And we will never be the same. And we must write our story in this moment, of what it means and who we are as Americans. And our story must be not that we were good men who did nothing. But that we were a committed democracy that did something.

And we must prove that now. With that, I yield back. Thank you.###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Sanders, Ramirez Reintroduce The Green New Deal for Public Housing Act
Date: March 21, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
View press conference here.

Washington, D.C.— Today,Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and Rep. Delia Ramirez (IL-03)reintroduced theGreen New Deal for Public Housing Actin partnership with public housing residents, affordable housing advocates, and climate change activists. The sweeping legislation aims to retrofit, rehabilitate, expand, and decarbonize the entire nation’s public housing stock through an estimated $162 to $234 billion investment over the next ten years.

“Years of grassroots organizing on behalf of vulnerable Americans led to the creation of the first federal public housing units but for decades the federal government has allowed our limited public housing stock to fall into disrepair. Residents are dealing with mold growth, lead-based paint hazards, lack of central cooling and heating, failing water infrastructure, and numerous other safety concerns. It is beyond time for the federal government to take responsibility and pass legislation that offers comprehensive, public solutions,”said Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez.“The Green New Deal for Public Housing Act will allow for an increase in public housing units, create an estimated 280,000 jobs, and invest up to $23 billion a year over ten years for highly energy-efficient developments. This will produce on-site renewable energy, expand workforce capacity, and focus on community development. Every American deserves to live in a safe, vibrant, and environmentally conscious community — including public housing residents. I am confident this legislation is how we make that a reality.”

“In these difficult times, we must move forward boldly to address the systemic and existential crises facing us today and that includes urgently combating climate change and making sure every American has a safe and decent place to call home,”said Senator Sanders.“It is unacceptable that, on a single given night in America, over 650,000 people are homeless. It is unacceptable that, in the richest country in the history of the world, people are choosing between paying rent and putting food on the table. It is unacceptable that our nation’s public housing is in a state of chronic disrepair and energy inefficiency after generations of government neglect. It is unacceptable that we have not done more to transform our energy systems, our communities, and our infrastructure away from fossils and toward renewable energy. This legislation is a major step in the right direction, and I am proud to partner with Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez in introducing it today.”

"Safe, sustainable, resilient, affordable housing is a HUMAN RIGHT, plain and simple. The policies we advance in Congress must help us realize that truth for EVERYONE. As our nation reckons with both a worsening housing crisis and urgent climate crisis, we must fight for and realize bold policy action and investment,"said Congresswoman Delia Ramirez."I am proud to stand with Representative Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Sanders to introduce legislation that will secure the future of our public housing, prioritize climate and racial justice, and boost our economy and labor force. The Green New Deal for Public Housing is a bold solution to confront unprecedented challenges."

TheGreen New Deal for Public Housing Actwould transition the entire public housing stock of the United States, as swiftly and seamlessly as possible, into zero-carbon, highly energy-efficient developments that produce on-site renewable energy, expand workforce capacity and family self-sufficiency programs, and focus on community development.

Specifically, the Green New Deal for Public Housing Act would:

Additionally, the bill would create two grant programs under one application process to modernize our public housing stock through:

“On behalf of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, I applaud Senator Bernie Sanders and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez for their bold, ambitious proposal to not only help preserve America’s public housing for current and future residents, but to modernize these homes to 21st century green standards, while also helping to ensure that low-income residents benefit from green job and training opportunities,”stated Diane Yentel, president and CEO of the National Low Income Housing Coalition.“We must combat the affordable housing crisis and climate change - both of which most harm people of color and people with the lowest incomes - through innovative, holistic and bold visions like the Green New Deal for Public Housing.”

“AFSCME proudly endorses the “Green New Deal for Public Housing Act” (GND4PHA) and we thank Sen. Sanders and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and Rep. Ramirez for leading and championing this bills to invest in and green public housing. AFSCME endorses GND4PHA because it supports public housing residences, residents struggling to make ends meet, our environment, and PHA employees,”said Paul Wallace, Maintenance Technician, and President of AFSCME Local 647 representing AFSCME union members at the Baltimore City Housing Agency.“Working families and low-income renters need this bill & its increased funding to repair, modernize, and green America’s public housing; increase energy efficiency; and slow down climate change. We support it creating new high road jobs and strengthening jobs programs, helping with tenant initiatives, job training, and apprenticeships. We are working with housing and environmental advocates to enact it to ensure families live in safe, decent, affordable housing permanently there for our kids and grandkids.”

"The Center for Popular Democracy Action is proud to support the Green New Deal for Public Housing to invest in strengthening existing public housing, while building green social housing for the future — and creating nearly 280,000 quality jobs in the process,”said Analilia Mejia and DaMareo Cooper, Co-Executive Directors of the Center for Popular Democracy Action."We are in the midst of one of the worst housing crises in our nation’s history. It’s the inevitable result of a real estate industry that sees our housing stock as dollar signs. It doesn’t have to be this way.”

“This bill is unique because it invests not only in our units and development but also in us as residents. No other bill prioritizes workforce development, intergenerational investment as our older adults age in place, subsidized resident-owned businesses, and an emphasis on resiliency — since many public housing communities live in climate-vulnerable areas, which are especially susceptible to extreme weather events,”said Jasmin Sanchez, New York City Housing Authority and Climate Organizer.“It is also essential to emphasize that residents' concerns revolve around the backlog of repairs, which prompts them to decide on short-term fixes. The Green New Deal for Public Housing creates a necessary pathway to allocate money to address the capital backlog in public housing.”

“Green City Force applauds this commitment to putting public housing first and on a path towards a just transition and more thriving communities,”said Tonya Gayle, Executive Director of Green City Force.“For the past 15 years, Green City Force has been the Civilian Climate Corps of the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA). We train young resident leaders to power a clean and inclusive economy through service. We are fully aligned with the priorities of the Green New Deal for Public Housing. NYCHA is a city within a city filled with talent and wisdom that is best positioned to inform solutions to the problems of climate change and environmental justice inflicted on frontline communities.”

“Mothers on the Move / Madres en Movimiento is thrilled to endorse The Green New Deal for Public Housing, a giant step towards recognizing the needs and solutions of public housing residents. For over 20 years we have organized tenant associations that have called for job opportunities to improve our derelict housing conditions. We are on the front lines of climate change, facing extreme heat, poor air quality, blackouts, food shortages and flooding,”said Wanda Salaman, Executive Director of Mothers on the Move / Madres en Movimiento.The Green New Deal for Public Housing will direct money towards tangible solutions for our most vulnerable, and open pathways out of poverty and into health and resilience.”

“The Green New Deal for Public Housing Act will revitalize our neglected public housing system and help house those struggling in today’s failed rental market,”said Andreina Kniss, Project Manager for Alliance for Housing Justice.“Tenants across the U.S. have called on the federal government to take bold action to address the housing crisis—this bill answers that call by expanding and improving the country’s public housing and brings us a step closer to building a comprehensive social housing system that truly serves all our needs.”

"Public housing is an essential source of stable and affordable housing for 1.6 million Americans, and our research shows we are rapidly losing units to conversions, demolitions, and deterioration,”said Kira McDonald of Climate and Community Project.“This legislation would constitute decisive action to stave this loss and transform living conditions for public housing residents. In doing so, it would improve residents' health, safety, help eliminate carbon emissions, and help build the new green industries we need to decarbonize."

“The concerted effort from our government to disinvest in our public institutions over the years has created generational oppression for our most vulnerable communities, especially public housing tenants,”said Ilona Duverge, co-founder of Movement School.“From toxic lead paint, to mold infestation, to heat and water outages, public housing is facing a humanitarian crisis. The Green New Deal for Public Housing Act is the only solution big and bold enough to resolve the deep issues we face with public housing in America.”

"The Green New Deal for Public Housing is going to change the game for those of us and our neighbors who are being hit hardest by the climate crisis,"said Saul Levin, Legislative and Political Director at the Green New Deal Network."Together, we will build state-of-the-art public housing that people are excited to live in – and create green union jobs and renewable energy at scale along the way. This bill would be a big step toward the gorgeous public infrastructure that will turn the safe and thriving communities of the Green New Deal into a reality!"

Senate Cosponsors:Blumenthal, Booker, Markey, Merkley, Padilla, Warren, Welch

House Cosponsors:Ramirez, Balint, Barragán, Blumenauer, Bowman, Boyle, Bush, Carter, Casar, Clarke, Cohen, D. Davis, Dingell, Espaillat, Frost, C. Garcia, R. Garcia, Goldman, Gomez, Grijalva, Norton, Huffman, Ivey, J. Jackson, Jayapal, H. Johnson, Khanna, B. Lee, S. Lee, Lieu, McCollum, McGovern, Meeks, Meng, Mullin, Nadler, Napolitano, Omar, Pingree, Pressley, Raskin, Sánchez, Schakowsky, A. Smith, Stansbury, Suozzi, Swalwell, Thanedar, Tlaib, Tonko, R. Torres, Velázquez, Watson-Coleman, F. Wilson

Endorsements:American Federation of State County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), National Low Income Housing Coalition (NLIHC), National Housing Law Project, National Health Care for the Homeless Council,International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Service Employees International Union (SEIU),AFSCME District Council 37,Center for Popular Democracy Action, National Homelessness Law Center, Alliance for Housing Justice, People’s Action/Homes Guarantee Campaign, Save Section 9, American Federation of Teachers (AFT), Movement For Black Lives, The Black Hive, MoveOn, National Domestic Workers Alliance,LeadingAge,WE ACT for Environmental Justice, The Debt Collective, United Auto Workers (UAW) Region 9A, Oil Change International, Green New Deal Network, Sunrise Movement, Gen-Z For Change, Public Citizen, Climate and Community Project, Labor Network for Sustainability, Food & Water Watch, National Wildlife Federation, CommonDefense.us, NextGen America, NLIHC’s 2022-2023 Collective Cohort, Care in Action, Liberation In A Generation, Partners for Dignity and Rights, Inner City Green Team Economic and Environmental Development, NYC Environmental Justice Alliance, Housing Justice For All, Make The Road New York, Make The Road Nevada, Make The Road Connecticut, The Point CDC, Citizen Action of New York, New York Communities for Change, VOCAL NY, ALIGN NY, NYC-DSA, Churches United for Fair Housing (CUFFH), Long Island Progressive Coalition, Indiana Tenants Association, California Green New Deal Coalition, Care In Action, Chesapeake Climate Action Network, Granite State Organizing Project, Chicago Area Fair Housing Alliance, 350 Bay Area Action, For The Many, Three Bridges Democratic Club, ACCE Action, Fuerte Arts Movement, Community Bridges Inc.-Tennessee, Georgia Advancing Communities Together Inc., Granite State Organizing Project, Windham Mills Tenant Union, Thrive North Carolina, Action NC, Garden Club of Windham, Alliance 85, 198 Methods, Who Speaks For Me?, Washington Low Income Housing Alliance, Innovative JOBS Solutions LLC., Nashville Davidson County COC CAB Chair.

Read the legislative texthere.

Read the one-pagerhere.

Read a section by section breakdownhere.

Read The Climate And Community Project’s 2024 report on The Case for a Green New Deal for Public Housinghere.==
Title: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Secures Over $12 Million in Funding for Bronx, Queens
Date: March 12, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
BRONX, NY — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is excited to announce that over $12 million has been secured for community projects serving New York's 14th Congressional District. The federal funding will help establish a violence prevention-focused community center in Astoria, create a youth center for Co-op City residents, improve street safety on Astoria Boulevard and Westchester Square, and more. The full list of projects can be found below.

“From helping seniors at NYCHA get new elevators, strengthening our shorelines to protect from future storms, increasing accessibility at our public libraries to creating spaces for families and youth to gather and address basic safety needs, I look forward to the more than $12 million we’ve secured this year making life better for neighborhoods across The Bronx and Queens,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. “I want to thank all the applicants for their patience and dedication through the selection process. I will continue fighting so the 14th Congressional District gets every dollar we deserve.”

Rep. Ocasio Cortez's Community Project Funding Grants:

MALIKAH - MALIKAH Center

$1,200,000

25-61 Steinway St, Queens, NY 11103

MALIKAH is eligible to receive $1,200,000 to acquire a three story mixed use property in NY14 to serve as a violence prevention focused community center. The facility will serve as a mental health center (peer to peer lead and 1:1), civil education (know your rights, citizenship classes), economic empowerment incubator (financial literacy, apprenticeship training), and self-defense studio (de-escalation, bystander intervention). It will provide both survivors of gender and hate based violence, and the immigrant community on Steinway Street in the Astoria neighborhood with a multifaceted grassroots approach to violence prevention and healing. It will lessen the burden on direct service providers, government offices and local municipalities by offering a proactive solution to economic, political and safety challenges facing working class people in NY14. MALIKAH, the nonprofit host, is an organization that has served the Astoria, Queens community for the past 14 years and is committed to violence prevention and community safety through mental health, financial literacy, community organizing and self-defense programming.

The Riverbay Fund, Inc. - Northeast Bronx Youth Center

$1,500,000

2049 Bartow Avenue, The Bronx, NY 10475

The Riverbay Fund is eligible to receive $1,500,000 to transform and renovate an existing 9900-sqft space to create an enrichment hub for education, recreation, culture, arts, and wellness services targeting children, adolescents and young adults in the Northeast Bronx. This renovation will transform a former movie theater space located at 2081 Bartow Avenue into a welcoming, state-of-the art 2st century facility where the area's youth can explore their passions and discover new ones. This space will serve as a center for performing arts, wellness programming and educational programming including STEM, financial literacy, and college and career preparation.

Variety Boys and Girls Club of Queens - Redevelopment

$1,166,279

21-12 30TH ROAD, Long Island City, NY, 11102

Variety Boys & Girls Club of Queens (VBGCQ) is eligible to receive $1,166,279 to demolish and construct a new five-story Club located at 21-12 30th Road in Astoria, to meet the needs of the growing population in Long Island City and Astoria. This project will more than triple the size of the building, increasing the number of youth and families that the Club serves each year through after school, summer camp, weekend workshops, and athletics programs.

GrowNYC - New York State Regional Food Hub

$1,000,000

100 Gold Street Suite 3300, New York, NY 10038

GrowNYC is eligible to receive $1,000,000 to build the New York State Regional Food Hub (the Hub), a new 60,000-sq. ft. building in Hunts Point. GrowNYC will use the Hub to store, aggregate, and distribute produce from regional farmers to underserved communities throughout the 5 boroughs. The project will add critical infrastructure to New York State farmers by providing expanded capacity and access to New York City’s wholesale marketplace, and creating new jobs in the process. Additionally, the new facility will feature cold storage helping GrowNYC meet food storage safety requirements, and enabling us to source farm fresh produce to large institutions such as universities, hospitals, and public schools.

NY Public Library - Pelham Bay Library ADA Restroom Upgrade

$500,000

476 5th Ave, New York, NY 10018

NY Public Library, Pelham Bay Branch is eligible to receive $500,000 to ensure greater accessibility for patrons at the Pelham Bay branch. The core objective to meet this goal is to conduct a comprehensive renovation of the restroom at the branch to bring it into compliance with current code and ADA standards.

New York City Housing Authority - Bronx River Houses Playground Revitalization

$1,000,000

90 Church St, New York, NY 10007

The New York City Housing Authority is eligible to receive $1,000,000 to ensure greater community safety and engagement by providing a safe space for children to gather and provide a 3rd place for socialization outside of home and school by rebuilding the playground at Bronx River Houses located at 1630 E 174th St, Bronx, NY 10472.

New York City Housing Authority - Sotomayor Houses Basketball Court Revitalization

$1,000,000

90 Church St, New York, NY 10007

The New York City Housing Authority is eligible to receive $1,000,000 to ensure greater community safety and engagement by providing a safe space for children to gather and provide a 3rd place for socialization outside of home and school by rebuilding the basketball court at Sotomayor Houses located at 1090 Rosedale Ave, Bronx, NY 10472.

New York City Housing Authority - Monroe Houses Playground Revitalization

$1,000,000

90 Church St, New York, NY 10007

The New York City Housing Authority is eligible to receive $1,000,000 to ensure greater community safety and engagement by providing a safe space for children to gather and provide a 3rd place for socialization outside of home and school by rebuilding the playground at Monroe Houses located at 1760 Story Ave Bronx, NY 10473.

New York City Housing Authority - Astoria Houses Playground Revitalization

$1,000,000

90 Church St, New York, NY 10007

The New York City Housing Authority is eligible to receive $1,000,000 to ensure greater community safety and engagement by providing a safe space for children to gather and provide a 3rd place for socialization outside of home and school by rebuilding the playground at Astoria Houses located at 3-02 Astoria Blvd, Queens, NY 11102.

Billion Oyster Project - Flushing Bay Oyster Reef

$500,000

10 South Street, Slip 7, New York, NY 10004

Billion Oyster Projectis eligible to receive$500,000 to design and install a one-acre oyster reef in Flushing Bay to address longstanding environmental justice inequities facing underrepresented communities in Queens. Not only will this project improve coastal resilience by creating oyster reef habitat, uplift marine biodiversity, and enhance ecosystem functions in Flushing Bay, but it will also serve as an outdoor classroom for diverse students from underrepresented local public schools to learn about marine science and lucrative maritime careers in Queens. This project is a critical step towards the restoration of a self-sustaining oyster population in Flushing Bay, and part of a larger effort to build back oyster reefs and complex habitat in western Long Island Sound.

New York City Housing Authority - Middletown Plaza Elevator Replacement

$500,000

90 Church St, New York, NY 10007

The New York City Housing Authority is eligible to receive $500,000 for elevator replacement at Middletown Plaza, located at 3033 Middletown Rd, Bronx, NY 10461. Middletown Plaza is a senior-residential building with approximately 192 residents living in 179 apartments. Upgrading the existing two elevators will address any future accessibility concerns and support tenants with limited mobility.

New York City Department of Transportation - Westchester Square Plaza

$1,000,000

55 Water Street, 9th floor, New York, NY 10041

New York City Department of Transportation is eligible to receive $1,000,000 for a capital project that will make the intersection of Westchester and East Tremont Avenues safer for all street users, while also introducing a new, vibrant public space south of the elevated 6 train that complements Owen F Dolan Park. The project will build out the large operational curb extension at this intersection's southwest corner, making permanent the geometric simplifications introduced using paint in 2018, and will reconstruct this location as new public space replete with seating, plantings, street trees, wayfinding, street lighting, and other amenities.

New York City Department of Transportation - Astoria Blvd Safety Improvements

$1,000,000

55 Water Street, 9th floor, New York, NY 10041

New York City Department of Transportationis eligible to receive$1,000,000 for a capital project targeting the Intersections along Astoria Boulevard between 82nd and 102nd streets in Jackson Heights and East Elmhurst, Queens, which have historically had high crash numbers, with 40 percent of pedestrian crashes occurring midblock or at an uncontrolled intersection. In order to prevent future fatalities and severe injuries, three locations along Astoria Boulevard will receive capital improvements. These interventions will increase pedestrian safety; reduce conflicts between pedestrians, cars, and bikes; and improve pedestrian circulation. These capital improvements will build on the successes of the operational improvements DOT implemented within these project limits in 2016.

Hutchinson River Restoration Project, Inc. (HRRP) - Hutchinson River Restoration Project

$50,000

88 Horton Street, The Bronx, NY 10464

The Hutchinson River Restoration Project is eligible to receive $50,000 to characterize areas and causes of shoreline pollution on the Hutchinson River and determine administratively and practically how the areas can be best restored for park land or other public use; 2) to increase active participation in debris clean-up activities along the river at all levels and 3) to expand public awareness of the polluted shorelines in communities alongside the Hutchinson River and its watershed through community meetings, newsletters, news releases, and the collaboration and information exchanges with like-minded groups.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Leads Bipartisan, Bicameral Introduction of DEFIANCE Act to Combat Use of Non-Consensual, Sexually-Explicit “Deepfake” Media
Date: March 7, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY–14) introduced thebipartisan and bicameralDisrupt Explicit Forged Images and Non-Consensual Edits Act of 2024(DEFIANCE Act). The legislation willcreate a federal civil right of action for victims of “digital forgery” in which their likeness is created using software, machine learning, artificial intelligence, or any other computer-generated or technological means to falsely appear to be authentic. The full bill text is availablehere.

“Victims of nonconsensual pornographic deepfakes have waited too long for federal legislation to hold perpetrators accountable. As deepfakes become easier to access and create — 96% of deepfake videos circulating online are nonconsensual pornography — Congress needs to act to show victims that they won’t be left behind,”said Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. “The DEFIANCE Act will allow victims to finally defend their reputations and take civil action against individuals who produced, distributed, or received digital forgeries. I’m grateful to lead this legislation with Senator Dick Durbin, along with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in both the House and Senate.”

TheDEFIANCE Actis led byU.S. Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D–IL), Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee; U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R–SC), Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee; and U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D–MN) and Josh Hawley (R–MO). In the House, the legislation is co-sponsored by Representatives Mike Garcia (CA–27), Nancy Mace (SC–1), Lori Chavez De-Remer (OR–5), Max Miller (OH–7) Jennifer Wexton (VA–10), Ted Lieu (CA–36), Jamie Raskin (MD–8), and Deborah Ross (NC–2).

“We’ve struck a remarkable bipartisan note this Congress on protecting Americans – especially children – from exploitation online. This includes addressing the rise of non-consensual, sexually-explicit deepfakes, often targeted at women. The deepfakes may not be real, but they cause very real harms. It’s time to return power to the victims and give them a tool to demand justice from those responsible for these horrific images. I thank Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez for her work to introduce the bipartisanDEFIANCE Actin the House and look forward to working with her to pass it into law,”said U.S. Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

The legislation is endorsed by the National Women’s Law Center, National Center on Sexual Exploitation (NCOSE), Public Citizen, Sexual Violence Prevention Association, Democratic Women’s Caucus, National Domestic Violence Hotline, UltraViolet, Futures Without Violence, Ujima, the National Center on Violence Against Women in the Black Community, Center for Survivor Agency and Justice (CSAJ), Joyful Heart Foundation, My Image My Choice, Reclaim Coalition, SIECUS: Sex Ed for Social Change, American Association of University Women (AAUW), Sakhi for SOuth Asian Women, Esperanza United, End Rape on Campus, Ms. Magazine, Foundation Ra, Explain the Asterisk, Protect America’s Daughters, Sexual Assault Response Coalition (SARC), Students Against Sexual Assault, What Were You Wearing, Rooting Movements, Hire Survivors Hollywood, Recognize Violence, Change Culture (RVCC), Equality California, and Street Grace. Quotes from these organizations follow.

“We greatly appreciate these Representatives’ brave legislation that will protect victims across the country,” said Omny Miranda Martone, Founder and CEO of theSexual Violence Prevention Association (SVPA). “Deepfake pornography is a form of digital sexual violence. It violates victims' consent, autonomy, and privacy. Victims face increased risk of stalking, domestic abuse, loss of employment, damaged reputation, and emotional trauma.”

“The proliferation of nonconsensual, sexually-explicit ‘deepfake’ images has exploded online, harming hundreds of thousands and threatening to harm anyone who has a photo online,” said Dawn Hawkins, CEO, National Center on Sexual Exploitation. “It is past time that our laws catch up and hold the perpetrators of this abuse accountable! The DEFIANCE Act is a critical step forward allowing a path to some justice for survivors through civil remedies. This federal law will surely stop many abusers from creating this exploitive content!”

"Nonconsensual intimate deepfakes are a here-and-now problem that demand immediate attention. Tens of thousands of people have already been victimized by deepfake pornography, the vast majority of whom are girls and women. No child – no person – should be subject to shame and trauma because some other person decided to make and disseminate an authentic-appearing intimate image or video of them without their permission," said Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen. "Public Citizen thanks Rep. Ocasio-Cortez for leading the way to protect girls, women and all people with the DEFIANCE Act, a careful and desperately needed legislative initiative to empower people who are targeted by nonconsensual deepfakes to hold perpetrators accountable."==
Title: On Five-Year Anniversary of the Resolution, Markey and Ocasio-Cortez Celebrate Green New Deal Victories, Chart Path for the Future
Date: February 6, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Report Text(PDF)|Implementation Guide(PDF) |Press Conference(VIDEO)

Washington (February 6, 2023) – Surrounded by labor, youth, and environmental justice leaders and activists, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) today celebrated the five-year anniversary of the first introduction of the Green New Deal resolution in Congress. Over the past five years, Green New Deal advocacy has galvanized climate action, catapulted environmental justice to the top of the national agenda, and helped deliver historic victories. From the introduction of federal legislation to support for interdisciplinary components of a Green New Deal, to local passage of Green New Deal resolutions, to initiatives that advance inclusive and equitable climate solutions, the movement for a Green New Deal is organizing at all levels and fighting for more solidarity, more investments, and more action.

Senator Markey and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez today unveiled a new report, “Five Years of the Green New Deal,” spotlighting what the Green New Deal means for communities and proposals for the future. The report details how public investments in Green New Deal goals have already resulted in major growth of climate solutions, clean energy jobs, and funding for environmental justice communities. It also highlights new polling about the popularity of the Green New Deal and lays out the legislative, implementation, and organizing victories needed in the next five years.

In the report, Senator Markey and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez wrote,“Since introducing the Green New Deal resolution, our movement has delivered monumental victories, and Green New Deal projects have started to take root in our communities. We have seen billions in new funding and witnessed a decades-delayed sea change in how we prioritize justice and union jobs in our project of building a clean economy. In the last five years we took a major step forward, one that most said was impossible. In the next five, we’ll need to take a step that’s ten times bigger.”

The lawmakers continued,“We know the stakes of this fight. We know the only choice is to win. We know a Green New Deal will deliver a livable future. Five years into the Green New Deal, we can’t stop now. Join us.”

TheInflation Reduction Act, the largest climate and clean energy bill ever to pass in U.S. history, is already delivering for communities with climate resiliency funding and the creation of technical assistance centers for environmental justice communities to help families and grassroots organizations in navigating funding opportunities. Most recently, the Biden administrationheededthe call led by Senator Markey and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez for a Civilian Climate Corps by announcing the launch of the new American Climate Corps program to mobilize and train a diverse generation of 20,000 service members for the climate resilience economy.

A copy of the report,Five Years of the Green New Deal, can be foundHERE.

In April 2023, Senator Markey and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez unveiled a “Green New Deal Implementation Guide” on how municipalities, states, Tribes, and nonprofits can develop their own Green New Deal projects, using the funding and new programs secured through five years of advocacy for a Green New Deal.==
Title: Reps. Ocasio-Cortez and Ivey call on Biden Administration to Establish a Humanitarian Parole Program for Cameroon
Date: January 31, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) and Glenn F. Ivey (MD-04) sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, asking him to establish a humanitarian parole program for Cameroon, to protect the thousands of people impacted by violence there. The full letter is availablehere.

The letter reads in part, “Recently, due to ‘ongoing armed conflict and extraordinary and temporary conditions in Cameroon that prevent individuals from safely returning,’ you redesignated and extended Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Cameroon. While this is an excellent first step in protecting Cameroonians already present in the United States, it does nothing for the people currently facing ongoing armed conflicts in Cameroon.” 
Since 2016, more than 6,000 people have been killed as a direct result of violence in West Cameroon. Additionally, more than 1.7 million are in critical need of humanitarian assistance while over 700,000 have been displaced. Further, members of Boko Haram have taken advantage of the violence to conduct deadly attacks on villages in Cameroon’s northern region.

“We welcome this congressional letter to DHS, especially this week as Cameroon Muslims and other Cameroonians gather in DC for the International Religious Freedom Summit,”said Imam Sale Abdussalam with the Cameroon Muslim Student Union.“This timely letter underscores the fact that 4 of the 5 armed conflicts in Cameroon, including Boko Haram, violates religious freedom and other freedom. Inshallah, we hope Cameroon is granted, Special Humanitarian Parole, just like other that have been both TPS and Parole, such as Afghanistan, Ukraine and Haiti.” 
“For over a decade of armed conflicts across Cameroon, Cameroon Muslim women, like women in conflicts areas, bear the brunt of war and displacement caused by war. At the 2024 International Religious Freedom Summit, we lift young Cameroon Muslims like Dahiru who fled the 5 armed conflicts in Cameroon,”said Asana Buinwi- Cameroon Muslimah of North America.“Only to be stuck in Caribbean when a deadly boat accident in the Atlantic ocean left him stranded during Ramadan of 2023. Inshallah, Special Humanitarian will bring Dahiru home to our large Cameroon Muslim community in Prince George's County in Maryland.” 
“As a New York-based arts organization, IHRAM, and our Founder, Tom Block, a Queens resident, we are proud of that the welcoming spirit of New Yorker now extends to Cameroon via this timely letter,”said Dr. Geraldine Sinyuy with International Human Rights Arts Movement.“At IHRAM, we have developed and producedpoetry,playsandproseto highlight the plights of Cameroon's war and its migrants. Yet, we know that policy is the ultimate action for the urgent immigration relief needed for my people.

“On the margins of the International Religious Freedom Summit, and with the recentNew York Times articlethat gave the historical significance of Humanitarian Parole, yet failed to mention that since its inception in 1950s, not a single African country has ever been grant Humanitarian Parole,”said Sylvie Qwasinwi Ngassa Bello with the Cameroon American Council.“This letter is a step in fighting anti-Africanness in Immigration relief and a push for greater equity as we move into Black History Month.”

==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Recognizes Congressional App Challenge Winner
Date: January 5, 2024
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY- Today, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled the winner of the Congressional App Challenge from New York’s 14th Congressional District: GloUp by Gioia Marchi, Bianca Siguencia, Somaih Sharhan, and Marufa Uddin. Glo Up is an app that collects information about users’ skin and hair types and then suggests products for purchase to address their beauty needs.A video demonstration of the app is available here.

“Due to the lack of knowledge or attention on different hair types, skin types, and more, people tend not to know how to care for themselves. This can make people insecure and unsure about themselves. This is especially common among young adolescents who are struggling with their self-image. Our goal with this app is to encourage inclusivity and unite everyone, regardless of gender or identity,” Marchi, Siguencia, Sharhan, and Uddin said. “The purpose of our app is to include products that are not as known or as mainstream and can help skin or hair concerns. This app can help anyone with any kind of hair type, skin type, skin complexion, and more.”

“We’re so impressed with Gioia, Bianca, Somaih, and Marufa, who took their lived experiences to create an app that makes it easier for others to navigate the beauty space — no matter their skin or hair type,” said Naureen Akhter, Deputy Chief of Staff and District Director. “We congratulate them and commend all the other applicants for participating in this challenge. The skill and sophistication of this year’s submissions show remarkable advancement in students’ coding abilities.”

Every year, students from across the country participate in the Congressional App Challenge by creating a software application, or “app”, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Each Congressional office that participates in the Challenge selects a winner from their district. The Congressional App Challenge’s mission is to inspire, include, and innovate efforts around STEM, coding, and computer science education. Students interested in participating this year canvisit the Congressional App Challenge’s website. Applications open in June.==
Title: 24 Members of Congress Call on Biden Administration to Establish a Ceasefire, Protect Children in the Gaza Strip
Date: November 15, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Mark Pocan (WI-2), and Betty McCollum (MN-4) led 21 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Biden, asking him to support a bilateral ceasefire in Gaza, in order to protect the one million children living there. The full letter is availablehere.

The letter reads in part,“We write to you to express deep concern about the intensifying war in Gaza, particularly grave violations against children, and our fear that without an immediate cessation of hostilities and the establishment of a robust bilateral ceasefire, this war will lead to a further loss of civilian life and risk dragging the United States into dangerous and unwise conflict with armed groups across the Middle East. Further, we write urging clarity on your strategic objectives for achieving de-escalation and stability in the region.”

More than 4,500 children have been killed in the Gaza Strip and another 7,695 children have sustained injuries. Additionally, at least 1,750 children have been reported missing and are presumed to be dead or trapped under rubble. Several schools in Gaza have been bombed as part of Israeli air strikes and more than half of hospitals in the Gaza Strip have completely shut down.

The letter is co-signed by Representatives Rashida Tlaib, Cori Bush, James McGovern, Mary Gay Scanlon, Raúl Grijalva, Pramila Jayapal, Joaquin Castro, Delia Ramirez, Henry Johnson, Greg Casar, Jesús “Chuy” Garcia, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Nydia Velázquez, Ayanna Pressley, Jonathan Jackson, Barbara Lee, André Carson, Jamaal Bowman, Summer Lee, Veronica Escobar, and Ilhan Omar.

The letter is endorsed by MoveOn, Amnesty International, Demand Progress, Center for International Policy, Center for Jewish Nonviolence, Churches for Middle East Peace, CIVIC, Common Defense, Friends Committee for National Legislation (FCNL), MADRE, Oxfam America, Win Without War, POMED, Working Families Party, Action Corps, Adalah Justice Project, American Friends Service Committee, Americans Justice In Palestine, Arab American Anti-Discrimination Committee (ADC), Democracy for Arab World Now, IfNotNow, Institute for Policy Studies New Internationalism Project, Jewish Voice for Peace Action, Maryknoll Office for Global Concerns, Migrant Roots Media, National Iranian American Council Action, Pax Christi Metro DC-Baltimore, Pax Christi USA, Peace Action, Peace Action Montgomery, The Duty Legacy, US Campaign for Palestinian Rights, Women for Weapons Trade Transparency and the Yemeni Alliance Committee. Quotes from those organizations follow.

“It’s welcome news that Representatives Ocasio-Cortez, Pocan, and McCollum, along with dozens of their House colleagues, are urging the Biden Administration to establish an immediate bilateral ceasefire in Israel-Palestine and asking for greater humanitarian access in all parts of Gaza,”said Hassan El-Tayyab, legislative director for Middle East policy at FCNL.“It’s critical that others follow their lead and call for a ceasefire to de-escalate this explosion of violence that has already led to the deaths of at least 11,000 civilians, including nearly 5,000 children. Every major humanitarian organization working in Gaza is pleading with the international community to reach an immediate ceasefire and open up aid access so they can continue their vital work in the Gaza Strip. It’s critical that Congress and the Administration listen before more innocent lives are lost.”

“The scale of humanitarian need in Gaza is huge – and growing exponentially by the day. Yet, right now, aid is all but impossible to deliver as bombs continue to fall. 2.2 million people are living under siege, denied safe shelter, food, water and other essentials - all while the fuel needed to deliver aid has run out,”said Scott Paul, Associate Director of Peace & Security at Oxfam America.“Israel is entitled to protect its people, but it must do so while complying with international humanitarian law. Civilians in Israel and Gaza have been paying the price for political failure and must be protected. To save lives now and in the future, we need an urgent ceasefire, an end to the siege, safe humanitarian access, and the return of all hostages.”

“This joint effort led by Representatives Ocasio-Cortez, McCollum, and Pocan urging President Biden to establish a robust bilateral ceasefire comes at a critical moment. More and more Palestinian civilians are losing their lives each day amid Israeli military operations and the unfolding of an unprecedented, man-made humanitarian catastrophe in the occupied Gaza Strip,”said Elizabeth Rghebi, Advocacy Director for the Middle East and North Africa at Amnesty International USA.“An immediate ceasefire by all parties to the conflict is the only way to prevent further loss of life, to deliver humanitarian aid to those in desperate need, and to provide an opportunity to secure the safe release of hostages.”

“We welcome this joint effort led by Representatives Ocasio-Cortez, McCollum, and Pocan calling for an urgent ceasefire to prevent further civilian deaths and deliver life-saving humanitarian aid,”said Annie Shiel, US Advocacy Director at Center for Civilians in Conflict (CIVIC).“Amid continued bombardment and ground fighting, civilians have virtually run out of options to seek safe refuge. The situation for civilians in Gaza — and especially children — is catastrophic. A ceasefire is needed immediately.”

"Over the last five weeks, Israeli airstrikes and siege have killed at least 4,609 Palestinian children, including three premature babies in Al-Shifa Hospital who had to be taken from incubators due to lack of electricity,”said Beth Miller, Political Director at Jewish Voice for Peace Action.“More children are still trapped under the rubble of buildings destroyed in Israeli bombings. No child should ever have to face the overwhelming scale and horror of the violence that Palestinian children in Gaza are experiencing. Representatives Ocasio-Cortez, McCollum, and Pocan, are pushing forward a critical demand for Palestinian children's life to be valued and protected, and for the Biden administration to finally put an end to this nightmare by calling for a ceasefire now."

“The urgent need for a ceasefire resonates deeply with the majority of the American public as we witness the devastating toll of over 11,000 Palestinian lives taken by Israel's war crimes in Gaza and across occupied Palestine. Israel's unhinged airstrike campaign and war crime of collective punishment have created a dire humanitarian crisis for the approximately 2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza,”said Dr. Osama Abu Irshaid, Executive Director at Americans for Justice in Palestine Action.“We steadfastly oppose the ongoing genocide and remain unwavering in our call for an immediate ceasefire. As Israel intensifies its military actions, Congress and the Biden Administration must reevaluate U.S. regional policies to ensure security and justice. The status quo has proven to be unsustainable, and Gaza cannot wait any longer for a ceasefire and entry of humanitarian aid.”

###==
Title: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Introduces Amendment Banning Israel from Using U.S. Aid to Deploy White Phosphorous Against Civilians
Date: November 1, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C - Today, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) introduced an amendment expressly banning Israel from using United States military aid to transfer white phosphorous for its indiscriminate use in civilian areas. The amendment will be offered to the supplemental bill for Israel, upon which the House is expected to vote on Thursday. The full amendment text is availablehere.

“Deployment of white phosphorous near populated civilian areas is a war crime. White phosphorous is indiscriminate. It burns human skin to the bone, and even minimal burns can result in organ and respiratory failure. Two independent, well-respected international human rights organizations have formally concluded that Israel is deploying white phosphorous in civilian areas. The United States must adhere to our own laws and policies, which prohibit U.S. aid from assisting forces engaged in gross violations of human rights and international humanitarian law,”said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement.

White phosphorus is an incendiary agent that, under international humanitarian law, can not be deployed near civilians. Israeli authorities deny using white phosphorus in Gaza and Lebanon. However, Amnesty InternationalsaidTuesday that it had verified several instances of Israel dropping white phosphorus in towns along the Lebanese border. Amnesty said one of these instances should be investigated as a “war crime” because it sent nine civilians to the hospital.  Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch alsodocumentedIsrael using white phosphorus in a Gaza port city in mid-October.==
Title: STATEMENT: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez on Violence in Israel and Palestine
Date: October 9, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released a statement on the violence in Israel and Palestine."Today is devastating for all those seeking a lasting peace and respect for human rights in Israel and Palestine. I condemn Hamas’ attack in the strongest possible terms. No child and family should ever endure this kind of violence and fear, and this violence will not solve the ongoing oppression and occupation in the region. An immediate ceasefire and de-escalation is urgently needed to save lives.”

==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Urges Biden Administration to Reverse Decision on Border Wall
Date: October 5, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. -  Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released the following statement after news broke today that the Biden Administration is expediting construction on parts of the border wall."The Biden administration was not required to waive several environmental laws to expedite the building of the border wall. The President needs to take responsibility for this decision and reverse course.

A wall does nothing to deter people who are fleeing poverty and violence from coming to the United States. You do not risk your life or your childrens' lives going through the Darién Gap  or traversing hundreds of miles of desert if you have any other options. Walls only serve to push migrants into more remote areas, increasing their chances of death. It is a cruel policy.

Instead, the U.S. must take examining the root of migration more seriously, re-examine policy towards Latin America, and stop contributing to the destabilization that drives migration - as Senator Marco Rubio's Venezuela sanctions have done. We also have to finally invest in meaningful immigration reform."###==
Title: Sanders, Ocasio-Cortez, Kaine, Velázquez, Castro, and Casar Introduce Resolution Commemorating Coup in Chile
Date: September 21, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, Sept. 21 – Following the 50th anniversary of the bloody U.S.-backed coup d’état against democratically-elected Chilean President Salvador Allende, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.), Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas) and Rep. Greg Casar (D-Texas) on Thursday introduced a Congressional resolution commemorating the coup, apologizing for the role the United States played, and calling for more transparency and further declassification of remaining U.S. records relating to events leading up to, during, and after the military coup.

The 1973 coup in Chile ushered in decades of military rule by General Augusto Pinochet, during which some 40,000 Chileans were killed, disappeared, tortured, or exiled. According to reports, President Richard Nixon ordered the CIA to “make the economy scream” and covertly block Allende’s inauguration through instigation of a military coup. Under the supervision of security adviser Henry Kissinger, the CIA continued its efforts to foster a “coup climate” and, in Kissinger’s own words to Nixon, “created the conditions as great as possible” for the military takeover.

Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) and Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) co-sponsored the resolution.

“Let me be clear: we must stand up for democracy here in the United States and beyond,” said Sanders. “And that means we must also acknowledge that the United States has not always defended democracy abroad, and in fact, has sometimes done the opposite. As we mark the 50th anniversary of the horrific coup in Chile, we must make clear that we regret our involvement and commit to supporting Chilean democracy. To build the lasting partnerships we need in this hemisphere, we will need to establish a basis of trust and respect. Part of that process includes full accountability for the coup and its aftermath.”

“This year marks 50 years since the 1973 coup in Chile. The Pinochet regime was responsible for horrendous human rights abuses and political suppression, including the murder of American citizens in Chile and targeted assassinations of political opponents within the United States,” said Kaine. “It is important that we acknowledge the United States’ role in the coup, but also learn from the U.S. Congress’s crucial role in ultimately bringing the regime’s atrocities to light, in order to strengthen our foreign policy in the future and be a better voice for human rights at home and abroad.”

“U.S. involvement in the bloody overthrow of democracy in Chile in 1973 helped usher in an era of horrific violence and authoritarianism. Last month, I traveled to Santiago, where the coup and resulting Pinochet dictatorship have left deep scars on Chilean society. For Chile to heal and the relationship between our two countries to prosper, we need complete transparency about the role of the U.S. in overthrowing President Allende,” said Velázquez.

Ocasio-Cortez said, “The U.S. cannot credibly show up as trustworthy partner that can help advance democracy in the present if we don’t own up to our complicated past. While we appreciate President Biden listening to our call and declassifying two relevant documents, there are still many outstanding questions. The people of Chile and the victims of Pinochet’s violence deserve answers.”

“Last month, I visited Chile with one of the first Congressional delegations led by leaders who came of age with a clear-eyed understanding of how America’s Cold War policy affected our neighbors. The legacy of American involvement in the region loomed large over our trip, but there was also a real willingness to build a relationship with the United States that looks beyond the Cold War,” said Castro. “If the United States is serious about building trust in Latin America, we have to be honest about our past. We need to help Chile heal by providing as much transparency as possible about the 1973 coup – and our role in Pinochet’s rise.”

“Fifty years ago the U.S. government supported a violent coup that toppled democracy in Chile and brought years of mass murder and authoritarianism to the country,” said Casar. “We should apologize and be transparent about the role that the U.S. government and major economic interests played in supporting the coup and the following years of authoritarian rule. Together, we can build a new relationship based on mutual respect and a commitment to peace.”

Earlier this month, Chilean President Gabriel Boric issued a fervent defense of democracy, stressing that the problems of democracy must be addressed through more democracy. The U.S. must always stand firmly on the side of those committed to democracy and the rule of law.

The resolution expresses profound regret for the U.S. contribution to destabilizing Chile’s political institutions and constitutional processes and recognizes the decades-long effort of Chile’s pro-democracy forces, applauding the Chilean people for rebuilding a strong and resilient democracy. It also vows that Congress will continue to engage with the Chilean people to participate in truth and reconciliation efforts, emphasizing that support for human rights is and should remain a key pillar of U.S. foreign policy not only in Chile, but across the globe.

To read the resolution, clickhere.Contact:press@sanders.senate.gov;AOC.press@mail.house.gov

==
Title: Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Jerry Nadler, Jamie Raskin, Hank Johnson and Ted Lieu Call on DOJ to Investigate Justice Thomas
Date: August 17, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C - Today, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Jerry Nadler, Jamie Raskin, Hank Johnson and Ted Lieu sent a letter to the Department of Justice urging Attorney General Merrick Garland  to investigate Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas for consistently failing to report significant gifts he received. For close to two decades, Justice Thomas repeatedly certified that his financial disclosures were “accurate, true, and complete,” despite omitting millions of dollars in gifts. Justices of the Supreme Court are required to file annual reports disclosing gifts, and the failure to do so carries a legal penalty under the Ethics of Government Act of 1978.

The letter reads in part,“Justice Thomas’s consistent failure to disclose gifts and benefits from industry magnates and wealthy, politically active executives highlights a blatant disregard for judicial ethics as well as apparent legal violations. No individual, regardless of their position or stature, should be exempt from legal scrutiny for lawbreaking. The integrity of our judicial system hinges on the impartiality and transparency of its members. As a Supreme Court justice and high constitutional officer, Justice Thomas should be held to the highest standard, not the lowest —and he certainly shouldn’t be allowed to violate federal law. Refusing to hold him accountable would set a dangerous precedent, undermining public trust in our institutions and raising legitimate questions about the equal application of laws in our nation.”

The full letter is availablehere.###==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Introduces NDAA Amendments on South America, Climate, Justice Reform
Date: July 13, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) introduced ten amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Consistent with her belief that the U.S. should support the truth and reconciliation efforts of South and Central American governments, several of these amendments directed relevant federal agencies to release classified information relating to U.S. involvement with previous authoritarian governments in Chile, Colombia and Brazil.  To address current human rights abuses in the region, she also introduced amendments conditioning military aid to Peru and banning support for aerial fumigation in Colombia.

“It’s time for the U.S. to acknowledge its history of contributing to regime change and destabilization in Latin America,” said the Congresswoman in a statement. “To reset this relationship, we must take full, public responsibility for our historical role - and demonstrate with our present actions that we will not support human rights abuses.” 
The Congresswoman also introduced several amendments relating to environmental justice, including asking the Department of State to conduct a study on the feasibility of providing debt relief to countries in the Amazon in exchange for commitment to protect the rainforest.  Additionally, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez reintroduced an amendment, asking for a report on on-going clean up efforts in Vieques and Culebra, Puerto Rico, where unspent munitions and hazardous materials from abandoned military installations have posed humanitarian and environmental hazards. Finally, the Congresswoman also introduced an amendment to ensure federal contractors are complying with recent rule changes that make it easy for the formerly-incarcerated to reenter the workforce.

The Congresswoman's amendment on Puerto Ricoreceiveda vote in the House on Wednesday and passed. It will be included in the NDAA, which is expected to receivea vote later this week. The Congresswoman's other amendments are awaiting review to see if they will be considered for a vote.

Summary of Rep. Ocasio-Cortez’s NDAA Amendments 
Enforce Fair Chance Improvement Act.Currently, there is a prohibition on criminal history inquiries by Defense and Federal contractors. However, the Department of Defense, which has the authority to investigate federal contractors who are violating this law, does not have the proper infrastructure to carry out the requirement. This amendment would shift the regulatory authority to the Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs to establish compliance procedures and determine whether a contractor has committed any violations. The Department of Defense has expressed their support for the amendment.

Strengthen Reporting of Military Emissions.The U.S. Military is widely suspected to undercount its emissions, and its reports to the UN and Congress differ significantly. This amendment would require an unclassified report on why these reports have differed.

Increase Transparency on PFAS Cleanup Efforts.An amendment requiring the Department of Defense to, within 1 year, prepare a report on the status of cleanup efforts of per- and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) from U.S. Military bases on downstream communities and ecosystems, including outstanding barriers to further cleanup efforts. PFAS, which are used in firefighting foam on military bases, are linked to a wide range of health problems, including kidney and testicular cancer, as well as endocrine disruption and immune system suppression.

Study Debt Swap to Protect Amazon. Requires the Secretary of State to conduct a study on the feasibility of  providing debt relief to countries in the Amazon region in exchange for commitments to conserve key areas of the Amazon Rainforest.

Declassify Documents on Chilean Coup.Ahead of the 50th anniversary of Chile’s 1973 coup, this amendment would seek to declassify all information at State, the CIA and the DoD relating to the U.S.’s involvement in Chile’s coup.

Oppose Aerial Fumigation in Colombia.The amendment prohibits funds from being used to conduct aerial fumigation in Colombia due to detrimental human health and environmental effects.

Release Colombian Human Rights Report.This amendment instructs the State Department to prepare a report documenting knowledge and intelligence from 1980-2010 regarding Colombian military involvement in assassinations, disappearances, collaboration in paramilitary offensives, military conduct in the false positives initiative from 2002-2008, and any gross violations of human rights resulting from the Colombian military’s partnerships with private companies for security. The report should also provide an overview of U.S.-Colombia military partnership during this time.

Report on Brazilian Military Forces.Directs the Secretary of State to submit an unclassified report to Congress on an overview of the U.S.-Brazil military partnership between 1964 and 1985. A 1964 military coup overthrew Brazil’s democratic government, allegedly resulting in the deaths of thousands of indigenous Brazilians.

Condition Aide to Peru:Dozens of protesters have been killed following the removal of Pedro Castillo from the presidency and then-VP Dina Boluarte’s ascendance. The amendment calls for human rights conditions on security assistance to Peru.

Release Report on Clean-Up Efforts in Vieques and Culebra, Puerto Rico. Unspent munitions and hazardous materials from abandoned military installations have posed humanitarian and environmental hazards in the region.###==
Title: Schumer, Jeffries, AOC, Nadler & More Call on Biden to Allow Asylum Seekers to Work
Date: May 12, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Asylum seekers already in the U.S. are currently required by federal regulations to wait at least six months to receive legal authorization to work

The full Senate and House NYC Democratic delegation have signed onto the letter to President Biden

WASHINGTON, DC — Today, the entire New York City congressional delegation, led by Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Representatives Jerry Nadler and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, sent aletterto the Biden administration, asking them to expedite work authorizations for asylum seekers. Many immigrants already in the U.S. are trapped in local shelters, unable to work legally for six months, due to a federal regulation that states that asylum seekers must wait 150 days to receive work authorization. The letter urges President Biden to eliminate the federal waiting period entirely, given the urgent need to grow the U.S. labor force, and to reduce the pressure on localities and charitable organizations serving asylum seekers following the expiration of Title 42.

“A shortfall of immigrants due to our restrictive immigration policies worsens widespread labor shortages and hobbles the U.S. economy at a time when more than 10 million jobs remain unfilled. Cities and states across the country desperately need workers, and millions of people in this country deserve dignified labor and a chance at rebuilding their lives….Without work, many are forced to seek services from government and non-government groups, straining resources in a completely preventable manner,” reads the letter.

Theletterwas signed by the full New York City delegation — Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and Representatives Nadler, Ocasio-Cortez, Meeks, Torres, Velázquez, Espaillat, Goldman, Bowman and Clarke.==
Title: Markey and Ocasio-Cortez Reintroduce Green New Deal Resolution
Date: April 20, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
They also unveiled new Green New Deal legislation and discussed the work aheadResolution Text (PDF).

Washington (April 20, 2023) – Today, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) were joined by labor, health, and climate justice advocates in celebrating the reintroduction of the Green New Deal Resolution. The Green New Deal proposes to tackle the climate crisis with a 10-year mobilization that puts millions of Americans to work in good-paying, union jobs. Similar to FDR’s New Deal, these jobs would be focused on strengthening the nation’s public infrastructure as well as tackling pollution and climate damage.

In the four years since the Green New Deal was first introduced, the tenacious advocacy of the movement resulted in the largest ever federal investment to fight climate change in theInflation Reduction Act. Today, Senator Markey and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez unveiled a Green New Deal Implementation Guide [LINK] that provides cities, states, Tribes, nonprofits and individuals with the tools to take full advantage of new federal funding in order to create on-the-ground progress toward a Green New Deal future.

“In the four years since we first introduced the Green New Deal, the tides of our movement have risen and lifted climate action to the top of the national agenda. Thanks to the persistence of the Green New Deal movement, we succeeded in securing historic progress through theInflation Reduction Actand theInfrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and now we have an obligation to honor the origins of that success – which sprung from the young people and workers who never once stopped organizing for their future – by putting those dollars to work to create dignified jobs, rectify generations of systemic injustice, and reverse climate damage,”said Senator Markey.“We have demonstrated that our movement is a potent political force, and in the run-up to the 2024 elections, we will direct this power to demanding solutions to the intersectional crises Congress has yet to address: in health care, child care, schools, housing, transit, labor, and economic and racial justice.”

“When we first introduced the Green New Deal, we were told that our vision for the future was too aspirational. Four years later, we see core tenets of the Green New Deal reflected in theInflation Reduction Act— the largest ever federal investment in fighting climate change, with a focus on creating good, green jobs. But there is still much, much more to do to make environmental justice the center of U.S. climate policy. Today’s reintroduction marks the beginning of that process — of strengthening and broadening our coalition, and of laying the policy groundwork for the next fight,”said Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez.

At the press conference, the lawmakers also acknowledged the shortcomings of theInflation Reduction Act, namely in addressing health and racial justice, supporting sustainable and affordable housing, building a robust care economy, improving public transit, and investing in American education and schools. To help bridge that gap, Senator Markey joined with Representative Ro Khanna (CA-17) to announce theGreen New Deal for Health, legislation that will enable the U.S. health care system to respond to climate change by improving sustainability and supporting patients, providers and communities. TheGreen New Deal for Healthis one of 10 Green New Deal bills that have been developed to date - others include theGreen New Deal for Public Housing, theGreen New Deal for Cities, theGreen New Deal for Public Schools, and theCivilian Climate Corps for Jobs and Justice Act.

Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Mazie Hirono (D- Hawaii), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Alex Padilla (D-Calif.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) are cosponsors of the Green New Deal Resolution.

“Last year, Congress passed sweeping climate legislation I wrote, setting us on a path toward a cleaner, greener future. These historic investments wouldn’t have passed without young people in Oregon and across the country demanding climate action,”said Senator Ron Wyden.“Our work is not done, and right now, I’m laser focused on making sure implementation of the climate provisions is done right. It is my hope that we can continue to build on the progress made to further realize the vision of the Green New Deal.”

“Four years after the introduction of the Green New Deal, the climate crisis is even more urgent: temperatures are still rising, storms are getting stronger, and flooding is becoming more frequent,”said Senator Elizabeth Warren.“The fight for environmental justice and a sustainable economy has never been more important, and I’m committed to working alongside Senator Markey and Representative Ocasio-Cortez to see it through.”

“It’s thanks to the Green New Deal movement that we made transformational investments to green our economy and fight climate change,”said Senator Peter Welch.“But the fight isn’t over. We can – and must – continue to push for the values of the Green New Deal, from creating good-paying green jobs to tackling economic inequality. I am proud to join my colleagues to continue the push for policy that puts people and planet first and builds a more sustainable, equitable, and brighter future.”

“The Green New Deal—dismissed by many as unachievable four years ago—now seems more realistic and necessary than ever,”said Senator Blumenthal.“Modernizing the grid, building housing, creating green jobs—all are doable and affordable, along with numerous other measures to save the planet. I’m proud to be an original and steadfast supporter.”

“The historic climate investments passed in theInflation Reduction Actwere made possible by the bold and ambitious vision set forth by the Green New Deal,”said Senator Padilla.“Now more than ever, as we brace for another year of record-breaking wildfires, floods, and unprecedented climate catastrophes, we must take advantage of this historic opportunity to transform our economy and build a clean energy future.”

The Green New Deal Resolution is endorsed by Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, Care in Action, Center for Popular Democracy, Citizen Action of Wisconsin, Climate Action, Corazon Latino, Cuyama Lamb LLC, Dayenu: A Jewish Call to Climate Action, FracTracker Alliance, Grassroots Global Justice Alliance, Green New Deal Network, Greenpeace USA, Justice Democrats, League of Conservation Voters, MADRE, Marked By Covid, Mid-Ohio Valley, Milwaukee Riverkeeper, National Domestic Workers Alliance, NY Renews Coalition, People's Action, Progressive Leadership Alliance of Nevada, Right to the City Alliance, Rachel Carson Council, Sierra Club, Sunrise Movement, Sunflower Alliance, The Black Hive @ M4BL, United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America (UE), United We Dream, US High Speed Rail Association, WildEarth Guardians, WV New Jobs Coalition, Zero Hour, 350 Hawaii, and 350.org.###==
Title: Rep. AOC Recognizes New York State Nurses Association Strike on House Floor
Date: January 12, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) recognized the New York State Nurses Association Strike during a speech on the House Floor.Watch the full floor speech here. A transcript of the speech can be found below:"Madam Speaker, I wish to congratulate the nurses of Mount Sinai and Montefiore Medical Center, who, after three days on strike, reached a tentative agreement for safe staffing ratios this morning.

Our hospitals are facing extreme nursing shortages and it is affecting patient care. Montefiore alone in my district has had 760 vacancies.

But thanks to the tentative agreement and the courage and effort of our nurses on the picket line, hospital management is now committing to an aggressive hiring plan and to immediately implement safe staffing ratios, including an increase of over 170 nursing positions and a 19.1% wage increase and additional benefits to help with retention.

Thank you so much to the New York State Nurses Association, NYSNA, for their work. It is our privilege to stand in solidarity with you."==
Title: Rep. AOC Secures Millions for Bronx, Queens Community Projects in Government Spending Bill
Date: January 10, 2023
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is excited to announce that over $15 million has been secured for community projects that will serve New York's 14th Congressional District. The federal funding will make possible a new pre-K program for Corona, street safety improvements to Astoria Boulevard and Westchester Square, a major expansion of the Plaza Del Sol Health Center, and more. The full list of projects can be found below.

“The funding secured for these 15 community projects will directly impact our communities in The Bronx and Queens — through investments in pre-K programming, community violence interventions, workforce training in green jobs, and more,” Representative Ocasio-Cortez said in a statement. “I also want to thank our community partners who worked with our office during the nomination process. Our staff worked tirelessly to create a fair process that would best serve historically underserved communities in our district. We’re looking forward to following the success of these community projects as they come to life.”

Rep. Ocasio Cortez's Community Project Funding Grants:

New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) - Clean Energy On-the-Job Training

$3,000,000

17 Columbia Circle, Albany, NY 12203.

The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) is eligible to receive $3,000,000 to provide wage subsidies to non-profits in the renewable energy sector to incentivize hiring and prioritize a just transition. To date, NYSERDA, in partnership with the NYS Department of Labor, has supported over 900 new hires. NYSERDA is proposing an enhanced offering for non-profit organizations that hire 16-24 year-olds and transitioning fossil fuel workers for clean energy positions including system design and installation, operation and maintenance related to energy efficiency and building electrification, renewable energy, energy storage, sustainable transportation, and other eligible technologies.

NYC Health and Hospitals Jacobi Stand Up to Violence - Mental Health Services Expansion

$845,026

1400 Pelham Pkwy S, The Bronx, NY 10461

The Stand up to Violence (SUV) program at NYC Health + Hospitals/Jacobi is eligible to receive $845,026 to expand social and mental health services to victims of violent crime. In 2021 the SUV program saw more patients due to violent trauma than any other year, and they have responded to 181% more gun-shot wound victims over the past two summers when compared to years prior. Left unaddressed, violence and mental health issues can lead to a cycle of emergency room utilization, police encounters, and jail time. Funding will go towards hiring 2 social workers, 2 caseworkers, 2 creative therapists, and 1 full-time psychiatrist, all who are experienced in treating trauma/violence.

Elmcor Youth and Adult Activities - Supportive Housing Project

$663,250

104-10 Northern Boulevard in Queens, New York

Elmcor Youth & Adult Activities, Inc. is eligible to receive $663,250 towards their supportive housing development for individuals in recovery and senior citizens. Specifically, Elmcor will provide permanent housing and supportive services for 21 chronically homeless single adults with a serious mental illness (SMI), a substance use disorder (SUD) (including those who are actively using or have started their recovery process within the last 12 months), or those who may have a co-occurring SMI and SUD (Population 1). The other 9 units will be affordable independent residences for seniors with project-based Section 8 vouchers provided by HPD through the NCP program.

Plaza Del Sol (PDS) - Family Health Center Expansion Project

$3,000,000

37-12 108th Street, Corona NY, 11368

Plaza Del Sol is eligible to receive $3,000,000 to expand their Family Health Center to serve an additional 7000 patients and hire 6.5 additional health care providers. The epicenter of the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, and home to a largely underinsured and undocumented immigrant community, residents of Corona experience poorer health outcomes than most parts of the city. The PDS Expansion Project will increase access to health care for residents of Corona and Elmhurst, providing comprehensive primary and specialty care augmented by complementary services such as health care enrollment, health education, and behavioral health services. The project will add mammography services and dentistry to its list of services.

New York Hall of Science - Pre-K Program

$750,000

47-01 111 Street Queens, NY 11368.

The New York Hall of Science is eligible to receive $750,000 to develop a pre-K program for preschoolers and identify new pedagogical practices that promote STEM learning from a young age. The pre-school will provide new seats in a crowded district and give families of Corona and Flushing top notch and innovative educational opportunities in their own backyard.

New York City Department of Transportation - Astoria Boulevard Safety Improvements

$1,000,000

55 Water Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10041

The New York City Department of Transportation is eligible to receive $1,000,000 to make Astoria Boulevard safer and more accessible for pedestrians by expanding sidewalk space, shortening crossing distances, adding crossings, and adding bus stop improvements, including bus bulbs. Specifically, this project will enhance pedestrian safety and improve pedestrian circulation by constructing curb extensions and median tip extensions along, as well as create left turn bays and crosswalks.

New York Botanical Gardens - Workers’ Operation Center

$1,000,000

2900 Southern Boulevard, New York, NY 10458

New York Botanical Gardens is eligible to receive $1,000,000 for the restoration of the Workers Operation Center, serving the daily work needs of the Garden's core workforce - the building service employees, engineers, carpenters, and administrative staff and will help to maintain an accessible, and safe urban sanctuary for the over 1 million guests and their families that visit. The existing site covers approximately three acres and has 3 buildings where staff are currently assigned. The current structures are very old and not optimal for the broad range of work needed to run a vibrant and accessible cultural institution. A new, highly efficient net zero building would provide a large general work area, smaller work areas for specific trades, a multi-purpose room to be used as a meeting room, lunch room with kitchenette, a workforce training room, locker rooms/bathrooms with showers, offices, a conference room, copy room, and vehicle storage/vehicle repair shop.

New York City Department of Transportation - Westchester Square Plaza

$1,000,000

55 Water Street, 9th Floor New York, NY 10041

The New York City Department of Transportation is eligible to receive $1,000,000 towards safety improvements in an area that is in the top 10% of dangerous crashes (severe injuries and fatalities) in The Bronx. The irregular street geometry at the intersection of Westchester Ave and East Tremont Ave significantly contributes to this area seeing a high number of pedestrian and motor-vehicle accidents, injuries, and fatalities. This project seeks to ameliorate these issues by removing a right turn slip lane and building out Westchester Square Plaza. This solution will create approximately 4,000 SF of quality public space in the area, providing public amenities and landscaping.

Neighborhood Housing Services of Queens (NHSQ) - Capacity Building

$2,400,000

60-20 Woodside Ave, Woodside New York 11377

Neighborhood Housing Services of Queens (NHSQ) is eligible to receive $2,400,000 towards acquiring a permanent home for their organization. NHSQ provides housing and foreclosure counseling services to low-income communities of color, who were disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Queens currently faces the highest number of foreclosures in New York. By acquiring a permanent space NHSQ will be able to continue providing housing services to more than 3,000 individuals and families annually — providing first time homebuyers’ assistance, home repair services, foreclosure prevention and financial education services.

New Immigrant Community Empowerment (NICE) - Creating Pathways to Safety and Success for Immigrants in the COVID-19 Landscape

$500,000

71-21 Roosevelt Avenue Jackson Heights, NY 11372

New Immigrant Community Empowerment (NICE) is eligible to receive $500,000 to grow its workforce development program that trains recently-arrived immigrants for safe, living-wage, career-track jobs within the construction industry. This support will enable NICE to serve 1,000 additional immigrant workers over a one-year period. The program will train workers for the construction industry, with particular focus on immigrant women wanting to transition from domestic to construction work, and newly arrived immigrants. This work will be paired with connecting community members to health care resources like the Excluded Workers Fund and NYC Care as well as helping them navigate the process for COVID-19 vaccination.

Birch Family Services - Fostering Communication Across School and Community for Students with Special Needs and Their Families

$201,096

2885 St Theresa Ave, Bronx, NY 10461

Birch Family Services is eligible to receive $201,096 to train their education staff in PECS (“Picture Exchange Communication System”), a communication system designed for nonverbal children and adults. Birch Family Services provides education services to preschool and school-age children at its Pelham Bay Early Childhood Center in The Bronx, as well as other schools across the New York metropolitan area. Support for this program would lead to improved outcomes for young people across Birch’s education services, helping young learners achieve their IEP goals.

AABR - Back to Baseline: Trauma and Mental Health Care for Adults with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities post COVID

$382,174

15-08 College Point Ave, College Point, NY 11356

AABR is eligible to receive $382,174 to create three behavioral health positions to provide services to the 400+ individuals in their congregate care and Day Habilitation settings. People with intellectual and developmental disabilities are often overlooked and grossly underserved when it comes to receiving mental health services, particularly the treatment of trauma. The Behavioral Health Providers and staff will receive specialized training from experts at the Northwell Health Support Trauma Recovery for Youth with Developmental Disabilities (STRYDD) Center, in the identification and treatment of trauma for Individuals with Developmental Disabilities.

Variety Boys and Girls Club of Queens - Teen Academy & Mental Health Programming

$502,250

21-12 30TH Road, Astoria, NY, 11102

Variety Boys and Girls Club of Queens is eligible to receive $502,250 towards the implementation of a Mental Health program at their Teen Academy, which offers free college and career readiness training to underserved high school students living in Queens. Recognizing the mental health impacts of the pandemic on youth, between the loss of loved ones and extended periods of remote learning, this funding will allow Variety Boys and Girls Club to hire social workers and other mental health counselors/professionals to support young people in achieving their goals.

Make the Road NY - Adult Literacy Services for Immigrant New Yorkers

$400,000

92-10 Roosevelt Ave, Queens, NY 11372

Make the Road New York is eligible to receive $400,000 to sustain and enhance its Adult Literacy program for low-income immigrant New Yorkers. Through adult literacy instruction, students will access better career opportunities and advance their language, literacy, and digital literacy skills to enable them to participate more fully in civic life. Funding will also enable MRNY to purchase technology to integrate digital literacy skill building into class instruction in FY23 and beyond, in order to address the widening technology gap that left low-income communities even further behind during the nationwide pivot to virtual platforms during the pandemic. Additionally, MRNY will assess program participants' urgent needs and connect them with survival services and other key resources.

Start Lighthouse Literacy Hub

$205,500

1970 West Farms Road, Bronx, NY 10460

Start Lighthouse is eligible to receive $205,5000 to create a literacy hub in a Title I school by reviving defunct, deprecated, and unused library spaces. Funds will go towards purchase of books, furniture and decor, authors’ residency honorariums, supplies and other program expenses to promote a love of reading and help students achieve reading proficiency by grade 3.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Recognizes Congressional App Challenge Winner
Date: December 6, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY- Today, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled the winner of the Congressional App Challenge from New York’s 14th Congressional District: CalendAir by Melissa Chowdhury. CalendAir is a mobile app that allows teachers and students to communicate directly with each other regarding assignments, upcoming deadlines, overall feedback, and more.

Chowdhury noticed that her school has “a vast number of resources addressing everything content-wise, but there is a great lack of resources addressing the roots of a student's education, including elements such as organization, procrastination, and mental health.” She hopes to work with her team to “start working with school & district leaders to implement CalendAir into middle & high schools to help maximize efficiency and productivity in the classroom while tackling these root issues that are typically overlooked, creating a stronger, more effective, education for students across the nation and beyond."A video demonstration of the app is available here."We were impressed with the ingenuity, timeliness and utility of Melissa’s application. She thoughtfully created a method for teachers to easily communicate with students, facilitating time management and organizational skills," said Naureen Akhter, District Director. “We congratulate her and commend our other applicants for participating in the Congressional App Challenge, and look forward to following the work of this next generation of young leaders.”

Every year, students from across the country participate in the Congressional App Challenge by creating a software application, or “app”, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Each Congressional office that participates in the Challenge selects a winner from their district. The Congressional App Challenge’s mission is to inspire, include, and innovate efforts around STEM, coding, and computer science education. Students interested in participating this year canvisit the Congressional App Challenge’s website. Applications open in June.==
Title: Espaillat, Ocasio-Cortez Urge DHS Action to Provide Asylum Seekers Accurate Information, Resources When Bussed to New York City
Date: August 9, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
NEW YORK, NY– Today,Representatives Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)andAlexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)sent a letterto U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS)Secretary Alejandro Mayorkasurging the agency to prioritize ensuring asylum seekers that arrive to New York City are provided accurate resources and informational upon their arrival.

Key excerpt from the letter:"According to recent reporting, asylum seekers being loaded onto buses from Arizona and Texas are dealt official Department of Homeland Security documentation directing them to social services organizations, rather than New York City’s Department of Homeless Services Prevention Assistance and Temporary Housing (PATH) intake center located at 151 East 151st Street in the Bronx. Alarmingly, many instances reflect that the addresses to social services organizations on the documents asylum seekers receive are inaccurate, misleading them and in some cases, putting that at risk of removal due to missing an important court date."the members state."When asylum seekers arrive, they are left stranded, unaware of the resources and locations of the city’s intake centers,"the members continue.

Further adding, "it is imperative that your agency work with municipalities who are receiving bussed asylum seekers and guarantee that addresses you are directing them to are accurate. Doing so will avoid ensure that migrants, many of whom are families with children, receive lifesaving resources in a timely manner. Coordination between federal, state, and local partners is critical to affirm safe housing and access to appropriate social and legal services for asylum seekers,"the members conclude.

New York City has continued to help asylum seekers but requires increased funding for programs that have effectively aided those exercising their legal right to seek asylum in the United States.

New York City is proud to meet its moral obligation in providing humanitarian assistance to those in need, but recent upticks including approximately 4,000 asylum seekers – the majority in families with children means that more funding is necessary with thousands more expected to arrive in the coming months.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Recognizes Congressional Art Competition Winner
Date: June 9, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY - Today, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled the winner of the Congressional Art Competition from New York's 14th Congressional District: Sally Almaklani. Sally’s work, titled “My Hijab Makes Me Powerful,” can be viewedhere.

“I have selected this artwork because of its striking visuals and the artist’s counter-narrative on hijab: that as a tool of self-expression, hijab can empower young women,” said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez. “The artist’s rendering of a radiant young Muslim woman compellingly counters Islamophobic stereotypes against the hijab. The yellow tones of her scarf juxtaposed against the dark background leaves a lasting impression on the viewer. The beautiful aesthetic coupled with the powerful message certainly speaks to my district.”

Every year, students from across the country participate in the Congressional Art Competition, sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. This serves as an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in our Congressional District. The winners are then recognized at a reception in D.C., which will be held later this month.

The winning artwork of our district's competition will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, and is also featured on the United States House of RepresentativesCongressional Art Competition page.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Submits Funding Requests for 15 Community Projects
Date: May 20, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY — Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez announced today that she is requesting federal funding for 15 community projects that would serve New York's 14th Congressional District. The proposed projects include workforce training in green jobs, a supportive housing development, community violence interventions, pre-K programming, youth mental healthcare services, public transportation safety and accessibility improvements, and funding for literacy services. The Appropriations Committee solicited these requests from all Members as part of their annual spending process. The full list of nominees from NY-14 can be found below.

Under guidelines issued by the Appropriations Committee, each Representative may request funding for up to 15 projects in their community for fiscal year 2023 – although only a handful may actually be funded. Funding is restricted to a limited number of project categories, and only state and local governments and eligible non-profit entities are permitted to receive funding. Additional information on the guidelines governing Community Project Funding can be foundhere.

In order to inform our funding requests, our office posted widely about the opportunity and scheduled conversations with eligible groups to discuss possible projects and field questions. We then requested one paragraph proposals from interested groups which we vetted with the appropriate congressional subcommittee to confirm eligibility, and encouraged groups to complete the appropriate forms on our website for further consideration.

We then presented the top 15 projects to the Congresswoman, who relayed her feedback to the projects. After further discussion and input from subcommittee staff, we arrived at the fifteen projects listed below.

If an organization’s project was not selected, there may be an opportunity for funding next year - though Congressional leaders have not yet confirmed that this process will repeat for fiscal year 2024. Some of the considerations for strong proposals include depth of project planning, clear objectives and scope of work, demonstration of community support, and ability to manage federal grants. The fifteen projects that were selected are outlined below.

Rep. Ocasio-Cortez's Community Project Funding Requests for Fiscal Year 2023:

New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) - Clean Energy On-the-Job Training$5,000,00017 Columbia Circle, Albany, NY 12203The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) requests $5,000,000 to provide wage subsidies to non-profits in the renewable energy sector to incentivize hiring and prioritize a just transition. To date, NYSERDA, in partnership with the NYS Department of Labor,  has supported over 900 new hires. NYSERDA is proposing an enhanced offering for non-profit organizations that hire 16-24 year-olds and transitioning fossil fuel workers for clean energy positions including system design and installation, operation and maintenance related to energy efficiency and building electrification, renewable energy, energy storage, sustainable transportation, and other eligible technologies.

NYC Health and Hospitals Jacobi Stand Up to Violence - Mental Health Services Expansion$845,0261400 Pelham Pkwy S, The Bronx, NY 10461The Stand up to Violence (SUV) program at NYC Health + Hospitals/Jacobi requests $845,026 to expand social and mental health services to victims of violent crime.  In 2021 the SUV program saw more patients due to violent trauma than any other year, and they have responded to 181% more gun-shot wound victims over the past two summers when compared to years prior. Left unaddressed, violence and mental health issues can lead to a cycle of emergency room utilization, police encounters, and jail time. Funding will go towards hiring 2 social workers, 2 caseworkers, 2 creative therapists, and 1 full-time psychiatrist, all who are experienced in treating trauma/violence.

Elmcor Youth and Adult Activities - Supportive Housing Project$663,250104-10 Northern Boulevard in Queens, NY 11368Elmcor Youth & Adult Activities, Inc. requests $663,250 towards their supportive housing development for individuals in recovery and senior citizens. Specifically, Elmcor will provide permanent housing and supportive services for 21 chronically homeless single adults with a serious mental illness (SMI), a substance use disorder (SUD) (including those who are actively using or have started their recovery process within the last 12 months), or those who may have a co-occurring SMI and SUD (Population 1). The other 9 units will be affordable independent residences for seniors with project-based Section 8 vouchers provided by HPD through the NCP program.

Plaza Del Sol (PDS) - Family Health Center Expansion Project$4,500,00037-12 108th Street, Corona NY, 11368Plaza Del Sol is requesting $4,500,000 to expand their Family Health Center to serve an additional 7000 patients and hire 6.5 additional health care providers. The epicenter of the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, and home to a largely underinsured and undocumented immigrant community, residents of Corona experience poorer health outcomes than most parts of the city. The PDS Expansion Project will increase access to health care for residents of Corona and Elmhurst, providing comprehensive primary and specialty care augmented by complementary services such as health care enrollment, health education, and behavioral health services. The project will add mammography services and dentistry to its list of services.

New York Hall of Science - Pre-K Program$300,00047-01 111 Street Queens, NY 11368The New York Hall of Science requests $300,000 to develop a pre-K program for preschoolers and identify new pedagogical practices that promote STEM learning from a young age. The pre-school will provide new seats in a crowded district and give families of Corona and Flushing top notch and innovative educational opportunities in their own backyard.

New York City Department of Transportation - Astoria Boulevard Safety Improvements$1,000,00055 Water Street, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10041The New York City Department of Transportation requests $1,000,000 to make Astoria Boulevard safer and more accessible for pedestrians by expanding sidewalk space, shortening crossing distances, adding crossings, and adding bus stop improvements, including bus bulbs. Specifically, this project will enhance pedestrian safety and improve pedestrian circulation by constructing curb extensions and median tip extensions along, as well as create left turn bays and crosswalks.

New York Botanical Gardens - Workers Operation Center$1,000,0002900 Southern Boulevard, New York, NY 10458New York Botanical Gardens requests $1,000,000 for the restoration of the Workers Operation Center, serving the daily work needs of the Garden's core workforce - the building service employees, engineers, carpenters, and administrative staff and will help to maintain an accessible, and safe urban sanctuary for the over 1 million guests and their families that visit. The existing site covers approximately three acres and has 3 buildings where staff are currently assigned.  The current structures are very old and not optimal for the broad range of work needed to run a vibrant and accessible cultural institution.  A new, highly efficient net zero building would provide a large general work area, smaller work areas for specific trades, a multi-purpose room to be used as a meeting room, lunch room with kitchenette, a workforce training room, locker rooms / bathrooms with showers, offices, a conference room, copy room, and vehicle storage / vehicle repair shop.

New York City Department of Transportation - Westchester Square Plaza$1,000,00055 Water Street, 9th Floor New York, NY 10041The New York City Department of Transportation requested $1,000,000 towards safety improvements in an area that is in the top 10% of dangerous crashes (severe injuries and fatalities) in the Bronx. The irregular street geometry at the intersection of Westchester Ave and East Tremont Ave significantly contributes to this area seeing a high number of pedestrian and motor-vehicle accidents, injuries, and fatalities. This project seeks to ameliorate these issues by removing a right turn slip lane and building out Westchester Square Plaza. This solution will create approximately 4,000 SF of quality public space in the area, providing public amenities and landscaping.

Neighborhood Housing Services of Queens (NHSQ) - Capacity Building$2,400,00060-20 Woodside Ave, Woodside, NY 11377Neighborhood Housing Services of Queens (NHSQ) requests $2,400,000 towards acquiring a permanent home for their organization. NHSQ provides housing and foreclosure counseling services to low-income communities of color, who were disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Queens currently faces the highest number of foreclosures in New York. By acquiring a permanent space NHSQ will be able to continue providing housing services to more than 3,000 individuals and families annually—providing first time homebuyers’ assistance, home repair services, foreclosure prevention and financial education services.

New Immigrant Community Empowerment (NICE) - Creating Pathways to Safety and Success for Immigrants in the COVID-19 Landscape$500,00071-21 Roosevelt Avenue Jackson Heights, NY 11372New Immigrant Community Empowerment (NICE) requests $500,000 to grow its workforce development program that trains recently-arrived immigrants for safe, living-wage, career-track jobs within the construction industry. This support will enable NICE to serve 1,000 additional immigrant workers over a one-year period. The program will train workers for the construction industry, with particular focus on immigrant women wanting to transition from domestic to construction work, and newly arrived immigrants. This work will be paired with connecting community members to health care resources like the Excluded Workers Fund and NYC Care as well as helping them navigate the process for COVID-19 vaccination.

Birch Family Services - Fostering Communication Across School and Community for Students with Special Needs and Their Families$201,0962885 St Theresa Ave, Bronx, NY 10461Birch Family Services requests $201,096 to train their education staff in PECS (“Picture Exchange Communication System”),  a communication system designed for nonverbal children and adults. Birch Family Services provides education services to preschool and school-age children at its Pelham Bay Early Childhood Center in the Bronx , as well as other schools across the New York metropolitan area. Support for this program would lead to improved outcomes for young people across Birch’s education services, helping young learners achieve their IEP goals.

AABR - Back to Baseline: Trauma and Mental Health Care for Adults with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities post COVID$382,17415-08 College Point Ave, College Point, NY 11356AABR requests $382,174 to create three behavioral health positions to provide services to the 400+ individuals in their congregate care and Day Habilitation settings. People with intellectual and developmental disabilities are often overlooked and grossly underserved when it comes to receiving mental health services, particularly the treatment of trauma. The Behavioral Health Providers and staff will receive specialized training from experts at the Northwell Health Support Trauma Recovery for Youth with Developmental Disabilities (STRYDD) Center, in the identification and treatment of trauma for Individuals with Developmental Disabilities.

Variety Boys and Girls Club of Queens - Teen Academy & Mental Health Programming$500,00021-12 30TH Road, Astoria, NY, 11102Variety Boys and Girls Club of Queens requests $500,000 towards the implementation of a Mental Health program at their Teen Academy, which offers free college and career readiness training to underserved high school students living in Queens. Recognizing the mental health impacts of the pandemic on youth, between the loss of loved ones and extended periods of remote learning, this funding will allow Variety Boys and Girls Club to hire social workers and other mental health counselors/professionals to support young people in achieving their goals.

Make the Road NY - Adult Literacy Services for Immigrant New Yorkers$400,00092-10 Roosevelt Ave, Queens, NY 11372Make the Road New York requests $400,000 to sustain and enhance its Adult Literacy program for low-income immigrant New Yorkers. Through adult literacy instruction, students will access better career opportunities and advance their language, literacy, and digital literacy skills to enable them to participate more fully in civic life. Funding will also enable MRNY to purchase technology to integrate digital literacy skill building into class instruction in FY23 and beyond, in order to address the widening technology gap that left low-income communities even further behind during the nationwide pivot to virtual platforms during the pandemic. Additionally, MRNY will assess program participants' urgent needs and connect them with survival services and other key resources.

Start Lighthouse Literacy Hub$205,5001970 West Farms Road, Bronx, NY 10460Start Lighthouse requests $205,5000 to create a literacy hub in a Title I school by reviving defunct, deprecated, and unused library spaces. Funds will go towards purchase of books, furniture and decor, authors’ residency honorariums, supplies and other program expenses to promote a love of reading and help students achieve reading proficiency by grade 3.###==
Title: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Secures Millions for Bronx, Queens Community Projects in Government Spending Bill
Date: March 10, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY - In May 2021, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez formally requested nearly $7 million in funding for 10 community projects that would serve New York's 14th Congressional District. Late Wednesday night, that funding passed the House as part of an omnibus bill to keep the federal government funded and open. The community projects include youth violence interventions, educational supports, workforce training in green jobs and home healthcare, and support for Plaza Del Sol Health Center and Elmhurst Hospital. The full list of projects can be found below."From reducing maternal mortality and youth violence, to training a new generation of green labor, I know these projects will be deeply impactful to our families throughout Queens and The Bronx," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement. "I also want to extend my appreciation to all our Bronx and Queens community partners who participated in the process resulting in these 10 nominations. For months, our team worked to develop a process around these funding requests that was fair, inclusive, thorough and people-driven. We are thrilled these projects will now became reality -- and we confident that all these projects fulfill our nation's collective goals, advance our collective pursuit of justice, and are deeply worthy of federal support."

Under guidelines issued by the Appropriations Committee, each Representative could request funding for up to 10 projects in their community for fiscal year 2022. Funding is restricted to a limited number of project categories, and only state and local governments and eligible non-profit entities were permitted to receive funding. In order to inform her project requests, the Congresswoman's office posted widely about the funding opportunity - in community boards, newsletters, social media and on town halls - and reached out to eligible groups to discuss possible projects and field questions. Proposals were ultimately evaluated based on their feasibility, cost, impact to NY-14, and service to historically underserved communities, among other criteria.

Rep. Ocasio Cortez's Community Project Funding Requests:

Obstetrical Inpatient Facilities Renovation at Elmhurst Hospital

$3,000,000

Elmhurst hospital will receive $3 million towards the renovation of its Obstetrical Inpatient facilities in order to provide a more modern, safe, and comfortable family-centered environment, one which meets current privacy standards. There will be two basic enhancements to their Obstetric Suite: privacy and comfort. When giving birth, privacy leads to a quieter environment which promotes recovery; it provides for better infection control; it is better for bonding between moms/parents and their babies. Healthy breastfeeding is fostered in single rooms. A patient and family centered environment leads to increased patient satisfaction and better health outcomes. It is imperative to provide equitable maternal care to the working class and immigrant communities surrounding Elmhurst hospital.

Stand Up to Violence Mental Health Services Expansion at Jacobi Hospital

$393,839

Jacobi Hospital will receive funding to add mental health services under the umbrella of their Stand Up to Violence (SUV) Program. Modeled after the Chicago based Cure Violence program, SUV addresses youth violence in the Bronx by deploying outreach workers to respond to shootings to prevent retaliation and to assist family members of those who have been injured or killed. Additionally, they mentor at-risk youth on educational and job opportunities. They are proposing the addition of an emergency room social worker, case worker, part time psychiatrist and a creative arts or music therapist, all who are experienced in treating trauma/violence. It would allow them to offer wraparound therapeutic treatment to patients to help address root causes of youth violence.

Offshore Wind Workforce Development at SUNY Maritime

$795,000

SUNY Maritime will receive funding to provide entry level training for high-wage earning jobs in the emerging regional offshore wind industry sector for New York State residents. Recognizing the growth in the offshore renewable energy sector, Maritime College established the Center of Excellence for Offshore Energy to focus on building a clean energy workforce and encouraging research in this growing area. Offshore Wind workforce training will be provided by their Professional Mariner Training Department, which has more than 20 years of providing professional training and education. Per New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) nearly 5,000 New York jobs could be created by the year 2035 through regional offshore wind deployment. For the first year, they will have the capacity to provide 24 classes and train/certify nearly 300 workers. SUNY Maritime is a member of NYSERDA's Jobs and Supply Chain Technical Working Group, along with unions and other labor groups, to ensure best labor practices within the emerging sector.

Chhaya Community Development Corporation's Capacity Building

$2,000,000

Procuring a long term home for Chhaya that can house front line and administrative staff and create a community space will help them expand their housing assistance services to more than the 3,000 clients per year they currently serve. For the last two decades, Chhaya has served as one of the only pan-South Asian, HUD-certified Housing Counseling Agencies in the nation.

Creation of Family Support Counselors for Queens Community House

$225,000

Queens Community House is seeking funding to create a Family Support Counselor (FSC) position at each of the two alternative high schools they operate in Corona and Elmhurst in partnership with the NYC Department of Education for students who have either dropped out or fallen substantially behind in credits and are at risk of dropping out. Currently, QCH has one FSC who provides case management support across five different schools. Last year, enrollment in those five programs and the Youth Development Center was 1,434 students. A dedicated FSC position at each of the alternative high schools will deepen and enhance the support they provide to students and their families while they continue to feel the effects of the pandemic. With this additional case management capacity, students and their families will have better access to the services they need to ensure that each of these students is empowered to earn their high school diploma.

Telehealth Technology Upgrade at Plaza del Sol Family Health Center

$96,150

Urban Health Plan is requesting funding to expand its technology capability and provide more telehealth services. During the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in New York City, community health centers had to pivot quickly and make major technological shifts to ensure that they were able to provide telehealth services at a time when people were social distancing and/or unable to leave their homes due to illness or disability. An investment in telehealth services will allow Plaza del Sol to increase the number of individuals and families it serves, make services more readily available and convenient for people with limited mobility or transportation options, enhance patient care services, improve communication and coordination of care among members of a health care team and the patient, and provide support for self-management of health care.

Home Health Aide (HHA) Training Program

$175,000

Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) requests funding to complete their home health aide (HHA) training program. It is an innovative workforce development program that helps un/underemployed individuals, primarily immigrant women, enter a career ladder in the healthcare field. They directly employ program graduates in unionized jobs within their two affiliated home care agencies. The requested funding will allow 300 community members to receive training, wrap-around services like the assistance of the job coach, soft skills training, and linkages to supportive services.

Expansion of Workforce Development Program for Emerald Isle Immigration Center

$55,000

Emerald Isle Immigration Center has been a service provider in Queens and the Bronx for over 30 years. Their funding will further develop their workforce development services. This program would help register and assist 250 clients with Job Counseling and training. This project, if successfully funded, also leverages other investments already made to our community through the support of the USCIS Citizenship and Integration grant and will have a measurable impact on our community in Queens and in the Bronx.

Restoration & Stabilization of Two On-Water Platforms on Flushing Bay

$263,000

Coastal Preservation Network requests funding to stabilize and restore two public access platforms that are in dire need of repair on Flushing Bay, NY. There are currently very few sites where College Point residents can go and safely enjoy the views available in their coastal community. Refurbishing and stabilizing these platforms would enhance safety and provide waterfront access to a community that has limited open spaces.

Safety, Learning, and College Access Program for Sunnyside Community Services

$100,000

Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) requests funding to institute the Safety, Learning, and College Access program at the Woodside Houses Cornerstone community center, a public housing-based community center in Woodside, Queens. Funding will go towards supporting 70 young people who are primarily low-income people of color, supplementing existing educational services to offer the "Too Good for Violence" curriculum, which utilizes social learning theory to develop interpersonal, pro-social, and peaceful behaviors that are facilitated by trained staff in order to build safer relationships and communities.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez’s Bill to Support Debt Relief for Developing Countries Passes as part of COMPETES Act
Date: February 4, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, as part of the America COMPETES Act, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez passed abillthrough the House to support debt relief for developing countries. The legislation strengthens the G-20’s Common Framework, a multilateral debt relief initiative, to reflect the challenges countries have faced during the pandemic. Critically, the legislation also places a moratorium on debt payments for countries that are applying to be part of the Common Framework.

“Developing nations whose early economies and political systems were crippled by colonialism and foreign intervention deserve a real opportunity to compete - to build independent, sustainable economies, unburdened by impossible levels of debt,” said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement.  “This bill will also have benefits at home as well as overseas. The race-to-the-bottom for wages that has cost the U.S. so many manufacturing jobs is driven by the economic vulnerability of developing nations.  We can’t have a healthy, competitive global economy, as long as the whims of a handful of nations dictate the financial stability of the rest of the world.”

In addition to this bill, the COMPETES Act also included anamendmentfrom Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, which prevents companies from using any of the $52 billion in federal incentives allocated to produce semiconductors from being used on stock buybacks or the payment of dividends to shareholders. The goal is to ensure that federal funding is actually used to incentivize the production of critical goods, rather than being used to enrich corporate executives.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Calls for Expansion of Residential Standards for At-Home Testing
Date: January 25, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — In a letter sent last week, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) led 36 members in calling on President Biden to expand the residential standards set by the free at-home COVID-19 tests program. The lawmakers asked the Administration to allow multi-family housing units to order the tests they need. The full letter, including a full list of Members, is availablehere.

The letter reads in part, “Since rollout, we have received a large number of reports from constituents regarding their inability to request COVID-19 test kits as a result of not living in a single-family household: those who reside in dwellings such as basement apartments, renovated multi-family units, and multi-family residences. For those in apartment buildings, once these addresses are claimed on the USPS order portal, no other tests can be ordered to that address without going through the hotline. People living in basement apartments may not have their own distinct address, so the policy of one order per dwelling is preventing them from getting the tests they need. Those who live above a retail establishment are also having difficulty ordering kits.”

“We urge the Administration to expand the guidelines currently set in place to account for basement apartments, renovated multi-family units, and multigenerational family households. Specifically, we urge you to allow families to list the number of members in their household and an associated surname, so that families who live in basement units or multi-family residences can access the appropriate number of tests."==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Recognizes Congressional App Challenge Winner
Date: January 10, 2022
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY- Today, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez unveiled the winner of the Congressional App Challenge from New York’s 14th Congressional District: Packaged in One (PnO) by Rumaiz Ahmed, Maru Kaneko, and Rina Kaneko. PnO is a mobile app that serves as a multipurpose educational tool with a variety of resources, such as a dictionary, electronic flashcards, and a full scientific calculator.A video demonstration of the app is available here."Rumaiz, Maru, and Rina’s application was inventive, functional, and apt. They thoughtfully considered that not all learning tools are available to students as schools shifted to remote learning during the pandemic, addressing inequities outside of the classroom," said the Office of Rep. Ocasio-Cortez. “We congratulate them and commend all the other applicants for participating in this challenge. The creativity and talent this next generation of young leaders has shown gives us much to look forward to."

Every year, students from across the country participate in the Congressional App Challenge by creating a software application, or “app”, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Each Congressional office that participates in the Challenge selects a winner from their district. The Congressional App Challenge’s mission is to inspire, include, and innovate efforts around STEM, coding, and computer science education. Students interested in participating this year canvisit the Congressional App Challenge’s website. Applications open in June.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Leads Bipartisan Letter to President Biden, Calling for Reopening of Yemen’s Sana International Airport
Date: December 22, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- In a recent letter, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez called on President Biden to exert diplomatic pressure on Saudi Arabia to end their blockade of the Sana International Airport. Congresswoman Nancy Mace and Senators Elizabeth Warren and Rand Paul co-signed the letter. Yemen's major airport has been out of use since August 2016, due to an ongoing civil war, in which the Saudi-led coalition has instituted a blockade Yemen’s airspace—making it off limits for both commercial and humanitarian purposes. This blockade is especially devastating because nearly 80 percent of Yemen’s citizens are in need of humanitarian assistance and 16.2 million people are at risk of famine, including 400,000 children under the age of 5.

The letter reads in part, “The United States must make clear that this cruel and senseless blockade is causing devastating harm to millions of innocent Yemenis and is harmful to diplomacy and the peace process. The Biden Administration should leverage all possible influence to pressure the Saudi-led coalition to end and decouple its blockade of the Sana’a International Airport from negotiations and allow for the unrestricted flow of humanitarian aid through the airport.”

The full letter is availablehere.

New York’s 14th Congressional District is home to a large community of Yemeni families, and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez is proud to stand with them in the fight for their loved ones.==
Title: Four Amendments to Protecting Our Democracy Act Offered by Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Pass the House
Date: December 9, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, the House of Representatives passed the Protecting Democracy Act, which included four amendments offered by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.

Her first amendment expands the definition of nepotistic practices to include the executive office of the president.  Currently, the definition only applies to federal agencies.

Her second amendment codifies the ‘Biden Ethics Pledge,’ as laid out in the President’s Executive Order,here.  This executive order was unprecedented in its strength and the amendment ensures no future president can revoke it. Rep. Lynch also co-lead this amendment.

The third amendment would regulate legal defense funds, specifically directing the Office of Government Ethics to promulgate regulations banning certain fundraising practices and outlining transparency requirements for legal expense funds in the executive branch. While legal defense funds are regulated for Members of Congress, they are currently not regulated at all for the executive branch.

Her fourth amendment aims to increase regulation of inaugural committees - imposing disclosure requirements; prohibiting donations from foreign nationals, shadow entities, and corporations; and prohibiting conversion of committee resources for personal use or for personal benefit.==
Title: Joyce, Ocasio-Cortez Introduce HOPE Act to Encourage State and Local Expungement Programs for Cannabis Offenses
Date: December 7, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Dave Joyce (OH-14), who is a Co-Chair of the House Cannabis Caucus, and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) introducedthe Harnessing Opportunities by Pursuing Expungement (HOPE) Act. This bipartisan bill aims to help states with expunging cannabis offenses by reducing the financial and administrative burden of such efforts through federal grants. Both lawmakers have advocated for cannabis reform on their respective sides of the aisle, with Congressman Joycesponsoring the first Republican-led effort to decriminalize cannabis at the federal levelin the U.S. House.

“Having been both a public defender and a prosecutor, I have seen first-hand how cannabis law violations can foreclose a lifetime of opportunities ranging from employment to education to housing,”said Joyce. “The collateral damage caused by these missed opportunities is woefully underestimated and has impacted entire families, communities, and regional economies. By helping states establish and improve expungement programs for minor cannabis offenses, the HOPE Act will pave the way for expanded economic opportunities to thrive alongside effective investments to redress the consequences of the War on Drugs.”

“As we continue to advocate for the decriminalization and legalization of marijuana, this bipartisan bill will provide localities the resources they need to expunge drug charges that continue to hold back Americans, disproportionately people of color, from employment, housing and other opportunity,”said Ocasio-Cortez.

Prior to the introduction of the HOPE Act, Congress’ cannabis expungement efforts have focused solely on federal crimes. However, while a small number of individuals may qualify for the expungement of low-level, federal cannabis charges over the course of decades of enforcement, the reality is that the overwhelming majority of cannabis-related charges are handled by state and local law enforcement. In 2019, the federal government was only involved in a fraction of the 545,000 cannabis offenses charged in the United States. That year, the FBIcharged only 5,350 individuals with a top-line charge for any drug offense, not just cannabis.

Unfortunately, despite the fact that expungement programs for cannabis-related offenses have recently advanced in states and cities around the country, many criminal record keeping systems are not ready for or able to support these efforts. Many criminal records, especially ones from decades in the past, are not digitized. Paper records systems not only slow the expungement process but make it much more expensive and burdensome.

The HOPE Act would address these complications by creating a new grant program under the U.S. Department of Justice, the State Expungement Opportunity Grant Program, and authorize it to be funded up to $20 million over the span of Fiscal Years 2023-2032. Through this grant program, the Attorney General would be authorized to make grants to states and local governments to reduce the financial and administrative burden of expunging convictions for cannabis offenses that are available to individuals who have been convicted of such offenses under the laws of the State. Funding provided by the State Expungement Opportunity Grant Program could be used:

The bill would also require the Attorney General to conduct a study on the impact of cannabis offenses on an individual’s criminal record, including impacts related to housing, employment, recidivism, and how such effects differ based on demographics. The study must also include a report on the costs incurred by states for incarcerating an individual convicted of a cannabis offense.

“Cannabis prohibition has saddled countless Americans, particularly people of color, with criminal histories that harm job prospects, limit housing options and close off educational opportunities,”said Steven Hawkins, CEO of U.S. Cannabis Council. “The HOPE Act can help provide desperately needed relief to millions of Americans by facilitating state and local expungement of nonviolent cannabis offenses. We applaud Reps. David Joyce and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership and strongly urge Congress to adopt their proposal.”

“This bipartisan effort represents the growing consensus to reform marijuana policies in a manner that addresses the harms inflicted by prohibition,”said NORML Political Director Justin Strekal. “It provides cash assistance for state and localities that are wisely choosing to remove these stigmatizing records. There is no justification for continuing to prevent tens of millions of Americans from fully participating in their community and workforce simply because they bear the burden of a past marijuana conviction.”

“At this point, most Americans live in a state that has legalized marijuana to some extent,”said Maritza Perez, Office of National Affairs Director for Drug Policy Alliance. “This bill will provide immediate relief to countless individuals who are still suffering the consequences of the war on drugs. An expungement will allow greater employment, education, and housing opportunities among other life-changing freedoms. The Drug Policy Alliance is proud to support this bill.”

“Criminal and economic justice is the cornerstone of any federal cannabis reform effort,”saidAndrew Freedman, Executive Director of the Coalition for Cannabis Policy, Education, and Regulation. “The bipartisanHarnessing Opportunities by Pursuing Expungement (HOPE) Actseeks to redress and restore communities negatively impacted by the disparate enforcement of drug laws. CPEAR welcomes the introduction of this proposal as part of a growing consensus for cannabis reform and applauds U.S. House Cannabis Caucus Co-Chair Dave Joyce and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership on this issue.” 
“Today, millions of Americans struggle to access housing, educational opportunities, and gainful employment simply because they have a cannabis criminal record,”said Sarah Gersten, Executive Director and General Counsel of Last Prisoner Project. “This means that for too many, something as small as a marijuana possession arrest has effectively sentenced them to a lifetime of poverty. These policies needlessly destroy lives and hurt all American communities. The HOPE Act will remove these unjust, arbitrary and counterproductive barriers by helping states expunge millions of low-level marijuana convictions. We’re grateful to Representative Joyce and Representative Ocasio-Cortez for working across the aisle to put forward this popular and commonsense cannabis criminal justice reform. We look forward to working with their offices to get the bill across the finish line.”

“NCR is gratified to see this demonstration of bipartisan cooperation between Congressman Joyce and Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez,”said Saphira Galoob, Executive Director of National Cannabis Roundtable (NCR). “As lawmakers look for common ground to achieve comprehensive cannabis reform, incremental steps – such as the expungements that would be made possible by this bill – are critical to the lives of millions of Americans today. Too many Americans have suffered the lasting and harmful consequences of convictions for conduct that is now deemed lawful under their state’s laws. We applaud Mr. Joyce and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership in addressing what is a real and tangible issue for so many.”

“Most of the expungement conversations in Congress have focused on federal convictions, which is laudable but glosses over the fact that the vast majority of cannabis arrests occur at the state level,”said Aaron Smith, CEO, the National Cannabis Industry Association (NCIA). “Getting these charges expunged can be prohibitively expensive for both state governments and individuals hoping to clear their records and get their lives back. This funding legislation would be a great step toward both providing relief for many thousands of prohibition victims and aligning federal policies with the growing national consensus that no one should have been arrested for cannabis in the first place. We thank Reps. Joyce and Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership on this important criminal justice issue.”

The bipartisan HOPE Act is endorsed by the U.S. Cannabis Council, NORML, CPEAR, National Cannabis Roundtable (NCR), Last Prisoner Project, NCIA, and Drug Policy Alliance.==
Title: Reps. AOC, Bowman Ask FEMA to Release More Aid to Hurricane Ida Victims
Date: December 7, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.--  Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Jamaal Bowman sent a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) asking them to provide additional aid to victims of Hurricane Ida. This follows the release of data which shows that nearly 10,000 applications for disaster relief in Queens and The Bronx were denied. The full letter is availablehere.

“We have heard from countless residents in New York’s 14th and 16th districts that the aid coming from FEMA has been insufficient, and in some cases, non-existent,” wrote Representatives Bowman and Ocasio-Cortez. “For example, a constituent in the Village of Pelham, NY suffered multiple damages to their property, including a broken boiler, water heater, washer/dryer system, and structural damage to their basement. They applied for FEMA relief but only received $5,500, which was vastly insufficient for repairing essential home infrastructure. Moreover, the approved fund would fail to ameliorate health and safety concerns. Another constituent in East Elmhurst was denied assistance after informing FEMA that she did not leave her home in the wake of the storm. Countless stories from constituents in our districts wondering about the limited relief. Many other constituents recount long processing times and automatic denials. Despite submitting applications in early September, some of our constituents have yet to receive a decision, let alone any funds to begin essential repairs.”

Following a request from Rep. Ocasio-Cortez’s office, FEMA shared that, as of November 22, only 3,943 of 10,694 applications from The Bronx have been accepted, with 4,628 having been found ineligible. In Queens, of 17,399 applications, only 9,057 have been found eligible, with 5,087 being denied. Additional reportingby WNYCfound that, in the 10 eligible New York counties, only 41% of applicants have been approved for funding as of December 6.###==
Title: Rep. AOC Leads 100 Members in Urging the Senate to Reinstate a Pathway to Citizenship in Build Back Better
Date: November 22, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, DC — Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) led a letter along with Representatives Lou Correa (CA-46), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Jesús “Chuy” García (IL-04), Grace Meng (NY-06), and 86 additional members urging Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Senate President Pro Tempore Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Senate Judiciary Committee Chair Dick Durbin (D-IL) to reinstate a pathway to citizenship in the Build Back Better Act. The full letter including a full list of Members is availablehere."The House of Representatives passed the Build Back Better Act — a historic piece of legislation. While the House bill secured protections and work authorization for undocumented individuals, the bill does not include a permanent pathway to citizenship. Our community has made clear that this is not acceptable. Throughout these past few months, Bronx and Queens families, as well as our grassroots immigrant advocates, have been united and unfaltering in their message: Democrats promised a pathway to citizenship, and we must deliver one,”said Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. “As this bill heads to the Senate, we must fight to ensure that we do not squander this once-in-a-generation opportunity. The Senate must establish a pathway to citizenship and finally provide Dreamers, TPS holders, farm workers, and essential workers with the stability and equal recognition they deserve."

“I am proud to lead with my colleagues in calling on Senate leadership to include a pathway to citizenship in the Build Back Better Act. While the immigration provisions in the bill the House passed go a long way to reducing the most severe harms that millions of undocumented immigrants face, we are not abandoning this fight. More than that, we are vigorously making the argument to our colleagues that we can’t truly ‘Build Back Better’ if the people who will do so much of the building are left out of the blueprint,”said Congressman Lou Correa. “Undocumented immigrants have been the backbone of our country—from growing our crops, processing our food, taking care of our children, and looking after our elderly. Yet, they have seen their dreams of becoming citizens shattered again. Through our continued advocacy efforts, we are saying the time is now. The Senate must include a pathway to citizenship in the Build Back Better Act. Eight years ago, 68 Senators—including 14 Senate Republicans—voted for a pathway to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country. We don’t have another eight years, five years, two years, or even two months to wait. We are urging our colleagues to understand the positive impact a pathway to citizenship will have on the American economy, working families, and future generations of Americans. While the Build Back Better Act is a monumental achievement, as Cesar Chavez said, ‘We cannot seek achievement for ourselves and forget about the progress and prosperity for our community.”

“The Build Back Better Act makes historic investments in communities around the nation, providing immediate relief and support for individuals and working families,”said Congressman Adriano Espaillat. “We fought hard during negotiations to ensure that immigrant communities were not left behind and that undocumented individuals who have contributed significantly to helping our nation recover would be included. Following last night’s House passage, we now urge our colleagues in the Senate to further this work by reinstating a pathway to citizenship for the millions of Dreamers, TPS holders, farm workers, and essential workers who are counting on us to do the right thing. We understand that much work remains in our efforts to fix our broken immigration system, and if our nation is to fully recover from the challenges and disruptions brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, now is the time to provide comprehensive reform and ensure our immigrant communities are unequivocally included in our relief efforts.”

“Though this bill delivers urgently needed relief to undocumented immigrants, it falls short of the pathway to citizenship that I’ve been fighting for and that immigrants deserve. It means families separated for decades can finally be reunited, workers can speak out against abuses without fear of retaliation, and immigrants can wake up every morning with some peace of mind,”said Congressman Jesús “Chuy” García. “Still, immigrants who keep our country running deserve to call America home. Senate Democrats must find the courage to deliver permanent solutions and include a pathway to citizenship in the Build Back Better Act.”

“Passing the Build Back Better Act was an historic and monumental achievement that stands to help so many working families in New York and across the country,”said Congresswoman Grace Meng. “But we cannot forget our ongoing fight for the millions of immigrants who are waiting for a pathway to citizenship, and I urge the Senate to reinstate this crucial provision as the chamber works on its version of the legislation. As I said last week, the fight to build back better cannot end with the House’s passage of the bill. We must ensure that no one is left behind as our nation works to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, and temporary status and time-limited immigration protections fail to help immigrants achieve their shot at the American Dream. We must get this done!”

==
Title: Rep. AOC Celebrates Inclusion of Civilian Climate Corps, Green New Deal for Public Housing, Limiting of Faircloth Amendment, and High Speed Rail Funding in Build Back Better
Date: November 22, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C. — On Friday, the House of Representatives passed the President’s Build Back Better Act, which included several pieces of legislation that Representative Ocasio-Cortez has introduced and has tirelessly advocated for— including the Civilian Climate Corps, the Green New Deal for Public Housing, limiting the Faircloth Amendment, and funding for high speed rail. More details on these projects can be found below.

Civilian Climate Corps

Back in April, Representative Ocasio-Cortez introduced theCivilian Climate Corpswith Senator Ed Markey. Over the past several months, Representative Ocasio-Cortez has been fighting to ensure that key provisions from the bill were included in the Build Back Better Act. Build Back Better funds Civilian Climate Corps through a combined investment of $30 billion in both personnel and project funding. The creation of a new Civilian Climate Corps would create 300,000 green jobs aimed at conserving our public lands, bolstering community resilience, and addressing the changing climate, all while putting good-paying union jobs within reach for more Americans.

Green New Deal for Public Housing

Representative Ocasio-Cortez also introduced the Green New Deal for Public Housing in April with Senator Sanders, in partnership with public housing residents, affordable housing advocates, and climate change activists. Build Back Better includes $65 billion for public housing which can be used to clear NYCHA’s maintenance backlog. The funds made available may also be used for green retrofits and resilience building, a hallmark of the Green New Deal for Public Housing. Learn more about the billhere.

Limiting the Faircloth Amendment

The Faircloth Amendment was passed in 1998 and prevents the building of public housing in the United States. In 2020, Representative Ocasio-Cortez led a successful vote to repeal the Faircloth Amendment in the House, which is critical to the expansion of affordable housing. Due to the leadership of Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez and Chairwoman Waters, new housing funding available through BBB will not be subject to the Faircloth Amendment. The full bill text can be foundhere.

Additional Funding for High Speed Rail

Representative Ocasio-Cortez secured $10 billion for high-speed rail corridor assistance to support planning and development of a public high-speed rail project. This comes after Representative Ocasio-Cortez called for additional funding for high speed rail back in June along with Senators Ed Markey and Kirsten Gillibrand, and Representatives Jim Costa and Seth Moulton. This federal commitment to these modern and proven transportation systems will dramatically improve our environment, reduce inequity, and help grow cities and sustain vibrant downtowns across the nation.==
Title: Reps. Ocasio-Cortez, Espaillat, Meng Introduce 9/11 Immigrant Worker Freedom Act
Date: October 25, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Adriano Espaillat and Grace Meng introduced the 9/11 Immigrant Worker Freedom Act, which would provide a path to citizenship for nearly 2,000 immigrant workers and volunteers who assisted with clean-up and search-and-rescue efforts at Ground Zero.  The bill is availablehere."No one has more 'earned' the right to call themselves an American than the undocumented workers and volunteers who did clean-up and search-and-rescue at Ground Zero.  Yet, twenty years later, many of these immigrants still lack permanent residency, even as they struggle with the health impact of asbestos exposure and other related trauma and injury. The solution is simple and entirely in the hands of Congress. We must act," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement.

“Thousands of undocumented immigrants worked tirelessly on the frontlines of the cleanup efforts following the 9/11 attacks to help clear debris, asbestos and dust for months without adequate protective equipment – risking their mental, emotional, and physical health for our nation,” said Rep. Espaillat. “And yet, to this very day, instead of being shown gratitude for their heroism and support, they continue to live in fear of deportation. It’s unacceptable, immoral, and simply un-American. When we hear of their stories, it recalls images of that tragic day and the impact to each of us, as many continue to suffer 20 years later. I’m proud to join with my congressional colleagues to reintroduce the 9/11 Immigrant Worker Freedom Act to rectify this decades old injustice and light a path forward for those who stepped up for us when we needed it most.”

“Many brave immigrants put their lives on the line to help in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks,” said Congresswoman Meng. “They deserve a fast track to legal status for the sacrifices they made for our nation, and 20 years after 9/11, it’s finally time to make that happen. It is way past time to pass this bill and doing so would be the right and decent thing to do. We cannot turn our backs on those who are struggling with health problems after they put themselves in harm’s way for our country. Congress must act.”

==
Title: Maloney, Ocasio-Cortez, and Torres Tour Rikers Island: Members Call on City to Address Inhumane Conditions, Release Low-Level Offenders
Date: October 12, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
NEW YORK, NY– Today, Representatives Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), and Ritchie Torres (NY-15) toured the Rikers Island jail complex and spoke with Rikers’ officials regarding the current state of the facility.

“Today, we saw first-hand the horrific conditions that individuals incarcerated on Rikers Island are living under and the support staff and corrections officers are working under. It is inexcusable that the number of in-custody deaths on Rikers Island has more than quadrupled over the past two years, including five individuals who have died of suspected suicides this year alone. While we welcome the signing of the Less is More Act, we must take action to improve conditions at the facility for incarcerated people, support staff, and corrections officers. To address overcrowding, we can act today by beginning the decarceration process, supporting individuals’ return to their communities, and working with the Courts to reduce pretrial sentencing and to expedite hearings for those currently incarcerated.

“The City, State, and federal government must immediately take action to correct the humanitarian crisis on Rikers Island, and provide a safe and clean environment – including ensuring access to medical care for those incarcerated there. The inhumane conditions we witnessed today are a stain on the City and State of New York. Riker’s horrific history must come to an end.”

==
Title: Espaillat, Velázquez, Ocasio-Cortez Lead Push to Prioritize Immigration, Housing, Transportation in Reconciliation Package
Date: October 8, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.-- Today,Representatives Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Nydia Velázquez (NY-07), andAlexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)led their colleagues in alettertoHouse Speaker Nancy PelosiandSenate Majority Leader Chuck Schumerurging them to prioritize public housing, immigration reform and accessible transportation in low-income communities as negotiations continue for the Build Back Better reconciliation package."As our communities continue on the road to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, it's more crucial now than ever that we deliver the much-needed support our constituents and the American people need,"said Rep. Espaillat."By ensuring robust investments in immigration reform, public housing, and transportation infrastructure remain included in the budget reconciliation package, we'll be able to provide our most vulnerable communities the support they need to not only stay afloat, but to build back better and stronger than ever before. We promised to go big and bold - and this is how we deliver."

“Communities around the country and in New York City are still recovering from the worst public health crisis in over a century,”said Rep. Velázquez.“By prioritizing public and affordable housing, immigration reform, and accessible transportation in low-income communities in the Build Back Better Act we’ll be able to help our constituents and Americans across this nation rebuild stronger than ever. We have a once in a generational opportunity to deliver for working families, and we need to get this done.”

"As you work to finalize the package, we urge you to maintain the level of funding for public and affordable housing, immigration reform and accessible transportation in low-income communities,"the members said in their letter."These priorities are critical to the economic recovery of New York City, and our great nation as a whole."

While the American Rescue Plan and other rescue packages helped address immediate health and economic concerns, they were not a long-term solution to many of the pressing challenges facing our nation. We are grateful for your leadership thus far and appreciate your diligence to deliver the transformative change that people throughout this country urgently want, need, and deserve. The Build Back Better reconciliation package is a once in a generation opportunity to build a sustainable and prosperous future for our country-- affordable housing, quality sustainable and accessible public transportation, and sound immigration reform must remain priorities in the debate,"the members concluded.

Specifically, as negotiations continue to be held for the Build Back Better reconciliation package,the membersare requesting that leadership support:

In addition toRepresentatives Espaillat (NY-13), Velázquez (NY-07),andOcasio-Cortez (NY-14), the letter was signed byRepresentatives Ritchie Torres (NY-15),Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09),Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12),Grace Meng (NY-06), andJamaal Bowman Ed.D. (NY-16).

The text of the correspondence is below, and you can read the letter in its entiretyhere.==
Title: Change in FEMA Funeral Assistance Eligibility Distributes $10M to New Yorkers
Date: October 7, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
New York, NY - A recent change in documentation requirements for FEMA's COVID-19 Funeral Assistance program has led to more than 1,600 New Yorkers receiving $10 million in reimbursement for burial expenses.The change was made after Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer heard from New Yorkers who were struggling to access the program because their loved ones' death certificates did not list COVID-19 as the cause of death. This discrepancy was an issue for many New Yorkers who died in the early days of the pandemic because hospitals lacked testing and knowledge of the virus' varied presentations. Consequently, FEMA agreed that applicants for deaths that occurred from January 20 to May 16, 2020 do not have to have the death certificate formally amended. Instead, the applicant can provide a signed letter from the original certifier of the death certificate or the local medical examiner or coroner certifying that the cause of death was likely COVID-19. More information is availablehere."From the start, we stressed to FEMA that this program needed to put accessibility first.  We cannot have families, who have already lost so much, burdened by impossible bureaucratic obstacles. We're grateful to FEMA for working with us to make this change so that families in need could get some of the relief they need," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Schumer in a joint statement.

Overall, 15,503 New Yorkers have received more than $107 million through the COVID-19 Funeral Assistance Program. FEMA is still accepting applications. Call 844-684-6333 to apply.==
Title: A Note to Our NY-14 Community from Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
Date: September 24, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
To our NY-14 community,

Yesterday, the House called to the floor a rushed, $1 billion supplemental military funding bill for Israel’s Iron Dome defense system. I want to be clear with our community that I am opposed to this bill, but ultimately cast a PRESENT vote. My job as your representative is to first and foremost serve with transparency and remain accountable to you, the people of New York’s 14th Congressional District.

First, let me begin with why I believe this bill should have been opposed: contrary to popular narrative, this bill was not for all U.S. funding of the Iron Dome, and opposing it would not defund U.S. financing of the system in any way, shape, or form. Since 2011, the U.S. has provided $1.7 billion for the Iron Dome and is already financially committed to continuing these funds through 2028. This bill adds an additional $1 billion in funding in one year to this system alone - for context, that is an amount in one year that approaches all the funding to this system we have provided over the last decade - and this is in addition to $3 billion authorized earlier this year in other forms of military funding to the Israeli government. I believe strongly that Congress should take greater scrutiny with all military funding across the world. I also believe that, for far too long, the U.S. has handed unconditional aid to the Israeli government while doing nothing to address or raise the persistent human rights abuses against the Palestinian people, and that this imbalance of power must be centered in any honest conversation about Israel and Palestine - in addition to the many other governments we militarily fund with a pattern of human rights abuses, such as the Saudi and Colombia relatedamendmentsI introduced last week as well.

In addition to opposing the substance of the Iron Dome supplemental bill, the process of bringing it to the House floor was deeply unjust. The legislative language itself was initially introduced, earlier this week, by way of an attempt to quietly slip this funding into routine legislation, without any of the usually-necessary committee debate, markup, or regular order. A funding leap this significant in a policy area that is already so charged and fraught for many communities, particularly our own, deserves the respect of a proper legislative process.

Unfortunately, that process did not happen. And, the reckless decision by House leadership to rush this controversial vote within a matter of hours and without true consideration created a tinderbox of vitriol, disingenuous framing, deeply racist accusations and depictions, and lack of substantive discussion on this matter. I want to be clear that the decision to rush this vote - virtually preventing any member from meaningfully consulting with their community - was both intentional and unnecessary. Even the night before, as it became clear that the discourse around this issue was quickly devolving from substance to hateful targeting, I personally had a call with the House Majority Leader to request a 24 hour stay of the vote, so that we could do the work necessary to bring down the temperature and volatility, explain our positions, and engage our communities. That request was summarily dismissed. Not only was the request dismissed, but despite the House having almost 8 straight hours of votes yesterday, this vote was chosen to be the first despite being one of the most controversial.

The damage of this careless process created very real spillover effects into our community. It created a real sense of panic and horror among those in our community who otherwise engage thoughtfully in these discussions, and fueled the discussion to devolve to a point where it became clear that this vote would risk a severe devolution of the good faith community fabric that allows us to responsibly join in a struggle for human rights and dignity everywhere - from Palestine to The Bronx and Queens. In short, the rush of this vote into a matter of hours was threatening to tear our community apart, and permanently close the doors that we desperately need open in order to progress. Yes, I wept. I wept at the complete lack of care for the human beings that are impacted by these decisions, I wept at an institution choosing a path of maximum volatility and minimum consideration for its own political convenience. And I wept at the complete lack of regard I often feel our party has to its most vulnerable and endangered members and communities - because the death threats and dangerous vitriol we’d inevitably receive by rushing such a sensitive, charged, and under-considered vote weren’t worth delaying it for even a few hours to help us do the work necessary to open a conversation of understanding.

It certainly wasn’t the first time people’s wellbeing was tossed aside for political convenience, and sadly I do not believe it will be the last. To those I have disappointed - I am deeply sorry. To those who believe this reasoning is insufficient or cowardice - I understand. To those who asked me to quell the volatility of this moment in our community, which constituted the majority of constituent feedback our office received - I hope we can take this moment and opportunity to more deeply engage in and grow a true, substantive movement of community support for human rights around the world - which includes cherishing and respecting the human rights of Palestinian people.

Yours,

Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez

==
Title: Rep. AOC's NDAA Amendments on Colombia, Saudi Arabia Pass House
Date: September 24, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Late Thursday evening, four amendments that Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez introduced to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) passed the House.Oneamendment would block the sale of weapons to the Saudi unit that killed journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The U.S. had provided training approved by the State Department to the Saudi operatives responsible for Khashoggi’s murder, highlighting the grave danger of U.S. military partnerships with countries engaged in human rights abuses.

Three amendments focused on the U.S. relationship with Colombia also passedtheHouse.One requires the Departments of Defense and State to produce a report on the status of human rights in Colombia within 180 days, given reports that as many as 63 people were killed this year during demonstrations against anti-working class reforms (full amendment text). Rep. Ocasio-Cortez also submitted anamendmentthat would prohibit the sale of military aid, weaponry, and training to Colombia’s Mobile Anti-Disturbances Squadron, which was directly responsible for egregious abuses during the April 2021 protests. Additionally, the Congresswoman reintroduced heramendment to prevent any U.S. funds from supporting aerial fumigation, whichhas been used in an attempt to decrease cocaine production; but instead has resulted in devastating health and environmental consequences for the Colombian people.==
Title: 68 Members Call for $30B in Funding for Civilian Climate Corps
Date: September 21, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Late Monday evening, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez led 68 Members in sending a letter to Speaker Pelosi expressing their support for $30 billion to be dedicated to the Civilian Climate Corps in the reconciliation package.  This funding will ensure the program is equitable and at the scale we need to respond to the climate crisis. The full letter is availablehere.

“Last year, we experienced a record breaking twenty-two extreme weather events totaling $98.9 billion in losses. As we make public investments in building a clean and resilient economy that works for all of us, we will need a substantial budgetary commitment to building the physical and social infrastructure that will make communities climate-resilient and establish a clean workforce. By providing $30 billion for the new CCC, we can ensure that this program is equitable, accessible to all, and established at the size and scale we need to respond to the climate crisis and create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs with a pathway to union membership,” reads the letter.

The letter was co-led by Reps. Joe Neguse, Judy Chu, Marcy Kaptur and Bobby L. Rush. Quotes from those Members follow.

“From the West and Great Plains, to the Coasts and Great Lakes, we are witnessing the wreckage brought about by a changing climate whose ferocity knows no bounds. Our success in tackling this challenge will require bold, innovative strategies commensurate with the scope of the threats we face. Fully funding a Civilian Climate Corps will help to create the good-paying jobs necessary to conserve our environment, and set us on a path toward a brighter, more sustainable future,” said Rep. Kaptur.

“In the face of multiple challenges that our communities in Colorado are facing: unemployment, catastrophic wildfires and climate change, creation of a Civilian Climate Corps will bring in essential resources to put Coloradans back to work, restore our lands and our communities,” said Congressman Neguse, Chair of the U.S. Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands. “By providing $30 billion for the new CCC, we can ensure that this program meets our vision, and is equitable, accessible to all, provides good pay, benefits, job opportunities and education benefits and can meet the size and scale required in responding to the climate crisis. The urgency of this moment recalls past chapters of national mobilization, and in standing up the Civilian Climate Corps, we will build on that legacy and existing infrastructure to meet the challenges of today.”

“For far too long, we have not given the climate crisis the attention and resources needed to mitigate the worst effects. And that is having serious consequences for us as, today, California is facing an historic drought and another devastating fire season. But now, we have the opportunity to change that with the Build Back Better Act. Including an investment of $30 billion to create a robust Civilian Climate Corps (CCC) will help vulnerable communities across the country while providing job opportunities and skills training for countless people. I am proud to join in leading this effort to ensure that the CCC rises to the scale of the crisis,” said Rep. Chu."At a time when millions of people across the country desperately need good-paying jobs, underserved communities are suffering from a lack of green space, and our national parks are in a state of disrepair, a Civilian Climate Corps is a commonsense investment that must be robustly funded in any reconciliation package. A 21st-century CCC would help us fight poverty, uplift and upskill young workers, and combat climate crisis simultaneously,” said Rep. Rush.

Previously, on September 10th, 120 organizations representing labor, conservation, youth, national service, and movements for racial, economic, and climate justice wrote to Speaker Pelosi and Leader Schumer to express support for $30 billion in funding for a new Civilian Climate Corps. Quotes from those organizations follow."For decades, local Corps programs have engaged young Americans in workforce development and meaningful projects that improve the environment and strengthen communities. The Corps model works. We have an opportunity to expand Corps programs to build a more sustainable future and address the serious climate challenges our country faces," said Mary Ellen Sprenkel, President & CEO of The Corps Network. "We thank those in Congress championing a Civilian Climate Corps. We look forward to working with the administration to ensure this new CCC is accessible to all young Americans."

“Millions of people are being devastated by catastrophic floods and wildfires, losing loved ones, their homes, and their livelihoods,” said Lauren Maunus, Advocacy Director of Sunrise Movement. “The climate crisis is here and we need good paying jobs that will help prevent and respond to our dueling economic and climate crisis. Congress must fully fund a Civilian Climate Corps to mobilize a workforce to stop the climate crisis and invest in strengthening our communities.”

“A bold Civilian Climate Corps, utilizing the power of national service, has the potential to address the critical issue of climate change while bringing young people together in common purpose,” said Kristen Bennett, Chief Strategy Officer at Service Year Alliance. “Service Year Alliance is proud to endorse a $30 billion CCC that is equitable, engages diverse Americans, builds more resilient communities, and puts young people on pathways to good-paying climate jobs. Our goal is to make national service an opportunity and expectation for all young people, and we believe any investment in the CCC should increase the living allowance and benefits for all national service programs to ensure the opportunity to serve is accessible to all young people.”

“Defend Our Future supports investments from Congress that are equitable, provide opportunities for young people and drive real climate solutions. And that’s exactly why we support a Civilian Climate Corps, which would put more people – particularly young people — in good-paying jobs to help protect communities around the country against the threat of climate change. We thank Rep. Ocasio-Cortez for her steadfast leadership on this issue,” said Defend Our Future’s director, Kyli Wagner.

“We are facing unprecedented, intersecting existential crises that threaten our sense of normalcy, our shared humanity, and our planet,” said Jackie Ostfeld, director of Sierra Club’s Outdoors for All campaign. “An ambitious CCC program will help us build healthy and safe communities, restore ecosystems, and protect our environment from the impacts of climate change. This is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to create jobs while taking on the major crises of our era — we cannot afford to go small.”

"For nearly three decades, AmeriCorps members have helped communities tackle the nation’s most pressing challenges. If properly resourced, the Civilian Climate Corps can build on that legacy, provide robust economic and educational opportunity, and promote an inclusive and equitable corps," said AnnMaura Connolly, President of Voices for National Service. "There is a diverse and growing support for establishing a bold and equitable CCC to reinvent, reimagine, and rebuild America. There is also strong support for improving benefits to all AmeriCorps members, so that Americans providing critical public health, nutrition, education, and other services may also benefit from the same economic, educational and career pathway opportunities."

“America Forward, the nonpartisan policy initiative of national venture philanthropy organization New Profit, sees the Civilian Climate Corps as an innovative strategy to address two critical challenges — preparing young adults for a productive future and protecting the environment. We urge Congress to waste no time in taking this bold but essential step,” said Deborah Smolover, America Forward Executive Director and New Profit Managing Partner.

“National service has a long history in conservation, climate, and disaster resiliency work, and an established network of 52 governor-appointed state service commissions and hundreds of local AmeriCorps programs that have the experience to develop a successful modern-era Civilian Climate Corps (CCC). The CCC is an historic opportunity to invest in a flagship AmeriCorps program to launch the next generation of climate stewards on a path to good-paying jobs while addressing critical issues in disproportionately impacted communities,” said Kaira Esgate, CEO of America’s Service Commissions and the States for Service Coalition. “We thank all the signers for their efforts and for recognizing the importance of national service and making it easier to serve in programs like AmeriCorps to address one of the biggest environmental, health, and economic challenges of our time.”

==
Title: Reps. AOC, Bowman, Nadler, Velȧzquez to Governor, Mayor: Decarcerate Rikers
Date: September 21, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
NEW YORK, NY- Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Jamaal Bowman, Jerry Nadler and Nydia Velȧzquez sent a letter to Governor Hochul and Mayor de Blasio expressing their belief that Rikers Island jail complex should be shut down immediately and those who are detained should be released. The full letter is availablehere.

“We strongly believe that those who are detained at Rikers should be immediately released and the facility shut down. It has become evident that the conditions at Rikers – which is overseen by the New York City Department of Corrections and receives federal funding from the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant program – are deplorable, and nothing short of a humanitarian crisis. We believe that the conditions of the facility represent a gross mismanagement of those federal funds. As such, we believe that expanding the facility and hiring corrections officers will exacerbate the issue; and redirecting funds towards emergency medical support staff would be a better use of funds,” reads the letter.

This letter follows numerous reports of inhumane conditions at the detention center. This year alone, eleven people have died at Rikers, including Esias Johnson, a 24-year-old man who was being held on $1 bail and whose family said he had struggled with mental illness. As of September 16, 2021, over 4,600 of the roughly 6,000 people in DOC custody were being detained pretrial – representing over 76% of the system’s population – with nearly 1,500 detained for misdemeanor or non-violent crimes.###==
Title: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Submits 7 Amendments for National Defense Budget Bill to Protect Human Rights
Date: September 16, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Ahead of next week’s vote on the The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez introduced seven amendments that collectively seek to end U.S. practices that have contributed to human rights abuses. Oneamendment would block the sale of weapons to the Saudi unit that killed journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The U.S. had provided training approved by the State Department to the Saudi operatives responsible for Khashoggi’s murder, highlighting the grave danger of U.S. military partnerships with countries engaged in human rights abuses.  Relatedly,the Congresswoman also introduced anamendment that would prohibit Direct Commercial Sales and Foreign Military Sales to any country that has engaged in gross violationsof internationally recognized human rights,genocide, or war crimes.

Rep. Ocasio-Cortez also introduced three amendments focused on the U.S. relationship with Colombia. First, she called on the Departments of Defense and State to produce a report on the status of human rights in Colombia within 180 days, given reports that as many as 63 people were killed this year during demonstrations against anti-working class reforms (full amendment text). Rep. Ocasio-Cortez also submitted anamendment that would prohibit the sale of military aid, weaponry, and training to Colombia’s Mobile Anti-Disturbances Squadron, which was directly responsible for egregious abuses during the April 2021 protests. Additionally, the Congresswoman reintroduced heramendment to prevent any U.S. funds from supporting aerial fumigation, which has been used in an attempt to decrease cocaine production; but instead has resulted in devastating health and environmental consequences for the Colombian people.

The Congresswoman also introduced an amendment to address human rights abuses occurring at home. Under the Department of Defense 1033 program, U.S. civilian law enforcement agencies regularly receive free military-grade weapons from the DoD, such as firearms, destructive devices, ammunition, mine-resistant ambush-protected vehicles, and grenade launchers. Rep. Ocasio-Cortez’samendment would prohibit the transfer of such weapons. The Congresswoman is also co-sponsoring an amendment led by Rep. Nydia Velázquez that would eliminate the 1033 program and an amendment led by Rep. Ayanna Pressley to place a moratorium on the future transfer of all weapons under the program.

Finally, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez also introduced anamendmentto suspend the transfer of Boeing Joint Direct Attack Munition weaponry under the $735 million direct commercial sale to the Israeli government. The Congresswoman introduced a resolution in the Spring with the same goal, following the death of 200 Palestinians during hostilities this Spring. This would block the transfer of the same kind of Boeing weaponry that the Israeli government used to kill 44 Palestinians in one night in al-Rimal (cite).==
Title: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Introduces Bill to Extend Pandemic Unemployment Insurance
Date: September 15, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) will introduce a bill to extend all federal pandemic unemployment insurance through February 1, 2022.  If passed, benefits would be retroactive to September 6.  The bill text is availablehere.

“I’ve been very disappointed on both sides of the aisle that we’ve just allowed pandemic unemployment assistance to completely lapse, when we are clearly not fully recovered from the cost effects of the pandemic,” the Congresswoman said in a townhall Tuesday evening, previewing the release of the bill. "I simply just could not allow this to happen without at least trying.”

Federal pandemic unemployment insurance and stimulus checks lifted nearly 8.5 million Americans out of poverty last year, according to recently released data from the Census Bureau. Cutting off this aid now, as coronavirus cases surge and job growth stagnates, threatens to reverse that progress and deepen existing inequities. In August, the U.S. economy created the fewest number of jobs in seven months (cite). Unemployment for Black and Hispanic women actually grew in June (cite).###==
Title: Declaración: Rep. AOC Sobre Proporcionar un Camino a la Ciudadanía para los Titulares de TPS a Través de la Reconciliación
Date: September 13, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, N.Y. - Antes del marcado del paquete de reconciliación del Comité Judicial hoy, la Representante Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez emitió una declaración en el que enfatiza la importancia de brindar vías a la ciudadanía para aquellos residentes con Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS) a través del proceso de reconciliación. Sigue la declaración completa.

“Durante el mes pasado, he escuchado de innumerables constituyentes que se encuentran en los EE.UU. bajo el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS). Tengo el privilegio de llamar a estos individuos constituyentes por completo gracias a su coraje y determinación al arriesgar sus vidas para escapar de las traicioneras condiciones de desastres ambientales, violencia y corrupción en casa. Hay más de 40,800 titulares de TPS en Nueva York. Hoy, los Estados Unidos es su único refugio y su único hogar.

En el distrito 14 del Congreso de Nueva York, muchos de estos electores provienen de Nepal, El Salvador, Honduras, Haití y Sudán, entre otros países. Han vivido en los Estados Unidos durante décadas, convirtiéndose en parte de la columna vertebral de nuestras economías locales y nacionales. Aunque TPS les ha permitido permanecer en los Estados Unidos, también ha puesto sus vidas en un limbo perpetuo, porque los titulares de TPS deben esperar unos meses para saber si el programa ha sido renovado.

Este mes, el Congreso tiene una oportunidad única en una generación para establecer caminos hacia la ciudadanía y finalmente brindar a estas personas — junto con los Soñadores, los trabajadores agrícolas y los trabajadores esenciales — la estabilidad que merecen. Es lo mínimo que podemos hacer, dadas las contribuciones directas de nuestro país a los desastres climáticos y de gobernanza de los que muchos de ellos están huyendo."###==
Title: Statement: Rep. AOC on Providing Pathway to Citizenship for TPS Holders Through Reconciliation
Date: September 13, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, N.Y. - Ahead of today's Judiciary Committee mark-up of the reconciliation package, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez released a statement emphasizing the importance of providing pathways to citizenship for those residents with Temporary Protected Status (TPS) through the reconciliation process. The full statement follows.

“Over the past month, I have heard from countless constituents who are in the U.S. under Temporary Protected Status (TPS). I have the privilege of calling these individuals constituents entirely thanks to their courage and determination in risking their lives to escape treacherous conditions of environmental disasters, violence and corruption back home. There are more than 40,800 TPS holders in New York. Today, the U.S. is their only refuge and their only home.

In New York’s 14th Congressional District, many of these constituents hail from Nepal, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, and Sudan, among other countries. They have lived in the U.S. for decades, becoming part of the backbone of our local and national economies. While TPS has allowed them to stay in the U.S., it has also put their lives perpetually in limbo, as TPS holders must wait every few months to find out if the program has been renewed.

This month, Congress has a once-in-a-generation opportunity to establish pathways to citizenship and finally provide these individuals — along with Dreamers, farm workers, and essential workers — the stability they deserve. It is the least we can do, given our country’s direct contributions to the climate and governance disasters many of them are fleeing.”

###==
Title: Statement: Rep. AOC on the Nomination of Former Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel as Ambassador to Japan
Date: September 1, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez released a statement calling on the Senate to reject Rahm Emanuel’s nomination to the ambassadorship of Japan. The full statement follows."This nomination is deeply shameful. As mayor of Chicago, Rahm Emanuel helped cover up the murder of Laquan McDonald - a mere teenager when he was shot 16 times in the back by a Chicago Police Officer. This alone should be flatly disqualifying for any position of public trust, let alone representing the United States as an ambassador. That the Biden administration seeks to reward Emanuel with an ambassadorship is an embarrassment and betrayal of the values we seek to uphold both within our nation and around the world. I urge the Senate to vote NO on his confirmation."###==
Title: STATEMENT: Reps. AOC, Tlaib, Pressley, García & Jones Urge Biden to Replace Powell as Federal Reserve Chair
Date: August 31, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, Ayanna Pressley, Mondaire Jones and Jesús G. “Chuy” García are releasing a statement urging President Biden to appoint a new Federal Reserve Chair rather than reappoint Jerome Powell. The full statement follows.

“As news of the possible reappointment of Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell circulates, we urge President Biden to re-imagine a Federal Reserve focused on eliminating climate risk and advancing racial and economic justice. This consequential appointment has the potential to remake the composition of the Board of Governors. While the Federal Reserve has made positive changes to its approach to full employment reflected in the new monetary policy framework, our concerns with Chair Powell’s track record are two-fold. Under his leadership the Federal Reserve has taken very little action to mitigate the risk climate change poses to our financial system. To illustrate, the Federal Reserve received a D- rating for its approach to climate risk policies from Positive Money’s Global Central Bank Scorecard, placing it at the bottom of the G20 Central Banks. At a time when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is warning of the potential catastrophic and irreversible damage inflicted by a changing climate, we need a leader at the helm that will take bold and decisive action to eliminate climate risk. Secondly, under Chair Powell the Federal Reserve has substantially weakened many of the reforms enacted in the wake of the Great Recession regulating the largest banks, including capital and liquidity requirements, stress tests, the Volcker Rule, and living will requirements. During the 2008-financial crisis, millions of Americans lost their homes and jobs, and many have failed to fully recover. Weakening financial regulations that were specifically created to prevent such a disaster from happening again, risks the livelihoods of Americans across the country. To move forward with a whole of government approach that eliminates climate risk while making our financial system safer, we need a Chair who is committed to these objectives. We urge the Biden Administration to use this opportunity to appoint a new Federal Reserve Chair.”

==
Title: Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Tom Suozzi to Announce the House Passed Federal Funding for SUNY Maritime College Offshore Wind Workforce Development Project
Date: August 30, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
THROGGS NECK, NY– On Monday, August 30, 2021, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Representative of the 14th Congressional District of New York, will hold a live press conference to announce that the House of Representatives passed federal funding for the Offshore Wind Workforce Development Project at SUNY Maritime College. Congressman Thomas Suozzi, 3rd Congressional District of New York, who jointly submitted the funding request with Representative Ocasio-Cortez, will also offer remarks. The funding request now awaits a vote in the Senate.

A proponent for green energy and labor, Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez requested federal funding for 10 projects within her congressional district. The Offshore Wind Workforce Development Project at SUNY Maritime College was submitted for $795,000 in Congressional Appropriations. If funded, the Project will provide entry level training for high wage-earning jobs in the emerging regional offshore wind industry sector for New York State residents. Nearly 5,000 New York jobs could be created by 2035 through regional offshore wind deployment, and SUNY Maritime College has the capacity to provide training and certify hundreds of workers yearly.==
Title: Following SCOTUS Ruling, Pressley, Bush, Gomez, Ocasio-Cortez and Colleagues Call on Congress to Act on Eviction Moratorium
Date: August 27, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
“The impending eviction crisis is a matter of public health and safety that demands an urgent legislative solution to prevent further harm and needless loss of human life.”

Text of Letter (PDF)

WASHINGTON– Today,Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley (MA-07), along withRepresentatives Cori Bush (MO-01), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34)andAlexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14),led over 60 of their House colleagues in writing to Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer imploring them to swiftly pass legislation to extend the federal eviction moratorium for the duration of the pandemic. The lawmakers’ letter follows the Supreme Court’s ruling that struck down the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) most recent eviction moratorium, which the lawmakers helped secure earlier this month.

“Millions of people who are currently at risk of eviction, housing insecurity, or face becoming unhoused desperately look to their elected representatives to implement legislation that will put their health and safety first and save lives,”the lawmakers wrote in their letter. “As your fellow colleagues, we implore you to act with the highest levels of urgency to advance a permanent legislative solution in a must pass legislative vehicle in order to extend the life-saving federal eviction moratorium for the duration of the deadly global health crisis.”

Only 51 percent of people in the United States are fully vaccinated, break-through infections are surging, andonly 11 percentof the $46 billion in Emergency Rental Assistance that Congress authorized to provide financial relief to renters and landlords has been distributed by states and localities. Black, Latino, Asian, and Indigenous households aremore likely to reportbeing behind on their rental payments, with nearly 600,000 seniors and nearly 20 percent of senior renters who are people of color are behind on rent. Additionally, communities with lower vaccination rates and higher COVID-19 cases tend to be the same as those with renters at heightened risk of eviction without an eviction moratorium.

With the Supreme Court ruling striking down the CDC’s eviction moratorium, the lawmakers are calling on Speaker Pelosi and Leader Schumer to advance a legislative solution to extend the eviction moratorium in a must-pass legislative vehicle.

“The impending eviction crisis is a matter of public health and safety that demands an urgent legislative solution to prevent further harm and needless loss of human life,”the lawmakers continued.“If we do not act, the end of the eviction moratorium will undoubtedly lead to the increased spread of COVID-19, more deaths, disability, and trauma. We implore you to act with the urgency this moment demands…”

Joining Reps. Pressley, Bush, Gomez and Ocasio-Cortez in sending the letter are Reps. Grace Meng, Jan Schakowsky, James P. McGovern, Raúl M. Grijalva, Suzanne Bonamici, Rick Larsen, Mark Takano, Betty McCollum, Marie Newman, Frederica S. Wilson, Mike Doyle, Pramila Jayapal, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Jamaal Bowman, David N. Cicilline, Diana DeGette, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr. , Jesús G. “Chuy” García, Alan Lowenthal, Veronica Escobar, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Darren Soto, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Nydia M. Velázquez, Andy Levin, Rashida Tlaib, Barbara Lee, Debbie Dingell, Jim Cooper, Carolyn B. Maloney, Bobby L. Rush, Nikema Williams, Alma S. Adams, Ph.D., Yvette D.Clarke, Ilhan Omar, Brenda L. Lawrence, Adam B. Schiff, Ruben Gallego, Kaiali‘i Kahele, Teresa Leger Fernandez, Dwight Evans, Jared Huffman, Al Green, Adriano Espaillat, Linda T. Sánchez, Gregory Meeks, Ritchie Torres, Earl Blumenauer, Gerald E. Connolly, Robert C. "Bobby" Scott, Danny K. Davis, Jamie Raskin, Ro Khanna, Michael F.Q. San Nicolas, Gwen Moore, Jerrold Nadler, Brian Higgins, Mark Pocan, Madeleine Dean and Mondaire Jones.

Late last month, with the previous eviction moratorium set to expire, Rep. Pressley stood in solidarity with her colleague Congresswoman Cori Bush, on the steps of the US Capitol to urge the Administration to act unilaterally to extend this protection—efforts that resulted in anew CDC eviction moratorium.

On July 31, ahead of the expiration of the previous CDC eviction moratorium, Reps. Pressley, Bush, Gomez and their progressive colleaguessent a letterrenewing their calls for President Biden and CDC Director Rochelle Walensky to extend the federal eviction moratorium and prevent the historic and deadly wave of evictions that would occur if the government failed to do so.

On July 30, Rep. Pressley joined House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) in introducing theProtecting Renters from Evictions Act of 2021, legislation to extend the eviction moratorium through the end of the year.

In June, Rep. Pressley, along with Reps. Gomez and Bush, led over 40 of their colleagues on aletterurging President Biden and CDC Director Walensky to extend and strengthen the moratorium for the duration of the public health crisis.

From the onset of the pandemic, Congresswoman Pressley has fought tirelessly to provide robust housing protections for families in Massachusetts and across the nation.# # #==
Title: At Committee Roundtable, Frontline Communities Discuss Dangers of “Peaker” Power Plants & Urgent Need for Environmental Justice
Date: August 27, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.(August 27, 2021) — Yesterday, Representative Carolyn Maloney, Chairwoman of the Committee on Oversight and Reform, held a field roundtable to hear directly from frontline communities that have been disproportionately burdened by pollution from power plants and discuss new environmental justice proposals the Committee will spearhead to curb deadly pollution and direct federal resources to the hardest-hit communities.

“Peakers are the dirtiest and most dangerous smokestacks, used at times of peak energy demand and largely concentrated in low-income communities,” Chairwoman Maloney said in her opening statement.  “For the 1.2 million New Yorkers living within one mile of a peaker, rates of asthma and deaths from COVID-19 are severely elevated.  In addition to the noxious fumes from peaker plants, these residents are exposed to constant pollution from large power plants that run all the time, and chronic vehicle congestion. Convening with communities on the ground to address issues like this one is central to the Oversight Committee’s environmental justice agenda.”

Roundtable participants included Ilona Duverge, Co-Founder and Director, Movement School;  Annel Hernandez, Associate Director, New York City Environmental Justice Alliance;  Elena Krieger, PhD, Director of Research, Physicians, Scientists, and Engineers for Healthy Energy;  Anthony Rogers-Wright, Director of Environmental Justice, New York Lawyers for the Public Interest;  and Calvin Thompson, Finance and Special Initiatives Associate, BlocPower.

At the roundtable, representatives of thePEAK Coalition—a first-of-its-kind partnership between community organizations and power sector experts in New York City— and other community leaders and experts highlighted how New York can serve as a model as they advance their efforts to retire every peaker in New York City by 2030, and the panelists underscored both the feasibility and urgency of these solutions.

As part of the Oversight Committee’s Environmental Justice Agenda, Chairwoman Maloney announced plans to develop legislation to ensure the federal government is a strong partner in the national effort to address environmental justice.

“As part of the Oversight Committee’s Environmental Justice Agenda, we’re developing legislation to minimize the strain placed on the electric grid that leads to the use of peakers, including by setting a 100% renewable energy target for the federal government,” Chairwoman Maloney announced.

Witnesses also underscored ways in which the Green New Deal for Public Housing Act, introduced by Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, ensures that historically marginalized communities have a voice in addressing the environmental injustices they face.

In response to Chairwoman Maloney’s question about how the Oversight Committee can deploy the “Green New Deal for Public Housing” to help meet the challenge of today’s environmental justice crisis, Ms. Duverge said:  “[Public housing tenants] have never been given the opportunity to have a seat at the table and express what their issues are and what solutions they believe will be best for their lives.  It really came down to giving people closest to the pain an opportunity to be close to the power and actually lead that change.”

The Committee also discussed how the Biden Administration’s Justice40 Initiative will play a key role in achieving environmental justice in frontline communities and how the Committee’ oversight work will ensure equitable implementation.

“I strongly support the Biden Administration’s whole-of-government approach to environmental justice through the Justice40 Initiative.  I am determined to conduct strong oversight of its implementation.  We must get this right and ensure that every federal agency has the tools it needs to direct at least 40% of the benefits of infrastructure investments to frontline communities like this one,” stated Chairwoman Maloney.  “The Oversight Committee is ready to push forward the Environmental Justice for All Act, work on additional legislation with our community partners, and conduct crucial oversight to ensure that Justice40 gets resources to the frontlines and prevents pollution in these communities.”

###==
Title: House Passes Rep. AOC's Bronx, Queens Community Project Funding Requests
Date: July 30, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Late Thursday, nine funding requests for community projects in New York’s 14th Congressional District passed the House of Representatives. The proposed projects include mental health services for a Cure Violence program, capacity building for a housing counseling non-profit, after school program enrichment, workforce training in green jobs and home healthcare, and facilities upgrades for Plaza Del Sol Health Center and Elmhurst Hospital. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez initiallyrequestedfunding for these projects in early May. More details on the projects can be found below.

Now, these funding requests await a vote in the Senate.  In June, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez traveled to both Elmhurst and Jacobi Hospitals with Senators Gillibrand and Schumer, respectively, to raise awareness about the need for both of the hospitals' community project funding requests. More information on those visits is available on the following pages:

Rep. Ocasio Cortez’s Community Project Funding Requests for Fiscal Year 2022:

Obstetrical Inpatient Facilities Renovation$3,000,000New York City Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst, 79-01 Broadway, Queens, NY 11373Elmhurst hospital requests $3 million towards the renovation of its Obstetrical Inpatient facilities in order to provide a more modern, safe, and comfortable family-centered environment, one which meets current privacy standards. There will be two basic enhancements to their Obstetric Suite: privacy and comfort. When giving birth, privacy leads to a quieter environment which promotes recovery; it provides for better infection control; it is better for bonding between moms/parents and their babies. Healthy breastfeeding is fostered in single rooms. A patient and family centered environment leads to increased patient satisfaction and better health outcomes. It is imperative to provide equitable maternal care to the working class and immigrant communities surrounding Elmhurst hospital.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Stand Up to Violence Mental Health Services Expansion$393,839New York City Health + Hospitals/Jacobi, 1400 Pelham Pkwy S, The Bronx, NY 10461Jacobi Hospital requests funding to add mental health services under the umbrella of their Stand Up to Violence (SUV) Program. Modeled after the Chicago based Cure Violence program, SUV addresses youth violence in the Bronx by deploying outreach workers to respond to shootings to prevent retaliation and to assist family members of those who have been injured or killed. Additionally, they mentor at risk youth on educational and job opportunities. They are proposing the addition of an emergency room social worker, case worker, part time psychiatrist and a creative arts or music therapist, all who are experienced in treating trauma/violence. It would allow them to offer wraparound therapeutic treatment to patients to help address root causes of youth violence.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Offshore Wind Workforce Development$795,000State University of New York Maritime College, 6 Pennyfield Ave, The Bronx, NY 10465SUNY Maritime requests funding to provide entry level training for high-wage earning jobs in the emerging regional offshore wind industry sector for New York State residents. Recognizing the growth in the offshore renewable energy sector, Maritime College established the Center of Excellence for Offshore Energy to focus on building a clean energy workforce and encouraging research in this growing area. Offshore Wind workforce training will be provided by their Professional Mariner Training Department, which has more than 20 years of providing professional training and education. Per New York State Energy Research and Development Authority(NYSERDA) nearly 5,000 New York jobs could be created by the year 2035 through regional offshore wind deployment.  If fully funded, for the first year, they will have the capacity to provide 24 classes and train/certify nearly 300 workers. SUNY Maritime is a member of NYSERDA’s Jobs and Supply Chain Technical Working Group, along with unions and other labor groups, to ensure best labor practices within the emerging sector.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Chhaya Community Development Corporation’s Capacity Building$2,000,000Chhaya Community Development Corporation, 37-43 77th St #2, Jackson Heights, NY 11372 Expanding Chaya’s capacity to provide housing assistance through physical relocation and/or additional staffing. Procuring a long term home for Chhaya that can house front line and administrative staff and create a community space will help them expand their housing assistance services to more than the 3,000 clients per year they currently serve. For the last two decades, Chhaya has served as one of the only pan-South Asian, HUD-certified Housing Counseling Agencies in the nation.Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies

Creation of Family Support Counselors$225,000Queens Community House, 108-25 62nd Dr, Queens, NY 11375Queens Community House is seeking funding to create a Family Support Counselor (FSC) position at each of the two alternative high schools they operate in Corona and Elmhurst in partnership with the NYC Department of Education for students who have either dropped out or fallen substantially behind in credits and are at risk of dropping out. Currently, QCH has one FSC who provides case management support across five different schools. Last year, enrollment in those five programs and the Youth Development Center was 1,434 students. A dedicated FSC position at each of the alternative high schools would deepen and enhance the support they provide to students and their families while they continue to feel the effects of the pandemic. With this additional case management capacity, students and their families will have better access to the services they need to ensure that each of these students is empowered to earn their high school diploma.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Telehealth Technology Upgrade$96,150Urban Health Plan - Plaza Del Sol Family Health Center, 37-16 108th Street, Corona NY 11368 Urban Health Plan is requesting funding to expand its technology capability and provide more telehealth services. During the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in New York City, community health centers had to pivot quickly and make major technological shifts to ensure that they were able to provide telehealth services at a time when people were social distancing and/or unable to leave their homes due to illness or disability. An investment in telehealth services will allow Urban Health Plan to increase the number of individuals and families it serves, make services more readily available and convenient for people with limited mobility or transportation options, enhance patient care services, improve communication and coordination of care among members of a health care team and the patient, and provide support for self-management of health care.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Home Health Aide (HHA) Training Program$175,000Sunnyside Community Services, 43-31 39th St, Sunnyside, NY 11104Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) requests funding to complete their home health aide (HHA) training program. It is an innovative workforce development program that helps un/underemployed individuals, primarily immigrant women, enter a career ladder in the healthcare field. They directly employ program graduates in unionized jobs within their two affiliated home care agencies. The requested funding will allow 300 community members to receive training, wrap-around services like the assistance of the job coach, soft skills training, and linkages to supportive services.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Expansion of Workforce Development Program$55,000Emerald Isle Immigration Center, 59-26 Woodside Ave, Woodside, NY 11377Emerald Isle Immigration Center has been a service provider in Queens and the Bronx for over 30 years. They request funding to further develop their workforce development services. This program would help register and assist 250 clients with Job Counseling and training. This project, if successfully funded, also leverages other investments already made to our community through the support of the USCIS Citizenship and Integration grant and will have a measurable impact on our community in Queens and in the Bronx.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

Restoration & Stabilization of Two On-Water Platforms on Flushing Bay$138,450Coastal Preservation Network, 9-22 119th St, College Point, NY 11356Coastal Preservation Network requests funding to stabilize and restore two public access platforms that are in dire need of repair on Flushing Bay, NY. There are currently very few sites where College Point residents can go and safely enjoy the views available in their coastal community. Refurbishing and stabilizing these platforms would enhance safety and provide waterfront access to a community that has limited open spaces.Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies

Safety, Learning, and College Access Program$100,000Sunnyside Community Services, 43-31 39th St, Sunnyside, NY 11104Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) requests funding to institute the Safety, Learning, and College Access program at the Woodside Houses Cornerstone community center, a public housing-based community center in Woodside, Queens. Funding would go towards supporting 70 young people who are primarily low-income people of color, supplementing existing educational services to offer the “Too Good for Violence” curriculum, which utilizes social learning theory to develop interpersonal, pro-social, and peaceful behaviors facilitated by trained staff in order to build safer relationships and communities.Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies

###==
Title: Statement from Rep. Ocasio-Cortez on Eviction Moratorium
Date: July 23, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released the following statement on the eviction moratorium."I urge the Biden Administration to extend the CDC’s eviction moratorium. It is reckless not to extend the deadline when rental assistance funds have not gone out fast enough to protect people. Eviction filings have already spiked in anticipation of the moratorium being lifted. New data also suggests the vast majority of the 6 million households with rental debt are in counties with high transmission rates of the delta variant. We must protect the vulnerable and do everything in our power to prevent a mass eviction crisis"###==
Title: Statement from Rep. Ocasio-Cortez on Demonstrations in Cuba
Date: July 15, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released the following statement on demonstrations in Cuba."We are seeing Cubans rise up and protest for their rights like never before.  We stand in solidarity with them, and we condemn the anti-democratic actions led by President Díaz-Canel. The suppression of the media, speech and protest are all gross violations of civil rights. We also must name the U.S. contribution to Cuban suffering: our sixty-year-old embargo. Last month, once again, the U.N. voted overwhelmingly to call on the United States to lift its embargo on Cuba. The embargo is absurdly cruel and, like too many other U.S. policies targeting Latin Americans, the cruelty is the point. I outright reject the Biden administration’s defense of the embargo. It is never acceptable for us to use cruelty as a point of leverage against every day people.”

###==
Title: Declaración de la Representante Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez respecto a Cuba
Date: July 15, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Hoy, la Representante Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) emitió la siguiente declaración sobre las manifestaciones en Cuba."Vemos a los cubanos levantarse y protestar por sus derechos como nunca antes. Nos solidarizamos con ellos y condenamos las acciones antidemocráticas lideradas por el presidente Díaz-Canel. La supresión de los medios de comunicación, el discurso y las protestas son graves violaciones de los derechos civiles básicos. También debemos nombrar la contribución de los Estados Unidos al sufrimiento cubano: nuestro embargo de casi sesenta años. El mes pasado, una vez más, la ONU votó abrumadoramente para pedir a los Estados Unidos que levantara su embargo a Cuba. El embargo es absurdamente cruel y, como muchas otras políticas estadounidenses dirigidas a los latinoamericanos, la crueldad es el punto. Rechazo rotundamente la defensa del embargo de la administración Biden. Nunca es aceptable que usemos la crueldad como un punto de influencia contráela pueblo".###==
Title: Senator Schumer, Reps. AOC, Velázquez & Nadler to Speak on Expanded Child Tax Credit
Date: July 8, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
NEW YORK, NY- On Thursday at the Ted Weiss Federal Building, Majority Leader Senator Charles Schumer and Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Nydia Velázquez and Jerry Nadler will hold a press conference on the Child Tax Credit (CTC). Congress expanded the CTC in March as part of the American Rescue Plan, so that families could get more relief and get it sooner.  The first advanced checks will be sent to families next week on Thursday, July 15. The checks will be $250-300 per child, and families will receive these checks every month for the rest of 2021. Families will then claim the remainder of their credit on their taxes next year, for a total credit of $3,000-3,600 per child.

The Congressional leaders will also encourage constituents who are struggling to sign-up for the CTC to take advantage of walk-in hours happening at the Ted Weiss Federal Building, on Saturday, July 10, from 10am to 7pm ET.On Friday, constituents can also take advantage of walk-in hours at Urban Upbound in Long Island City (9am-4pm), or they can make an appointment at COJO Flatbush (9am-2pm) by dialing 718-377-2900, ext. 331 or ext. 7618.

Any eligible family who filed their 2020 or 2019 taxes will automatically receive a check, but those who didn’t make enough to file taxes should attend the walk-in hours or use the IRS’online tool for 'non-filers. Any child with a Social Security Number qualifies for the tax credit, even if their guardians do not have legal immigration status - but in this case, guardians must have Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers (ITINs). Constituents can file aW-7 Applicationto receive an ITIN, and they can also utilize the walk-in hours on Saturday to get any additional assistance with the process.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Introduces Legislation to Improve Transparency of Political Appointee Diversity
Date: June 29, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.-Late Monday, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) introduced thePolitical Appointments Inclusion and Diversity Act, which requires the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to coordinate with the White House Office of Presidential Personnel to make a summary of demographic information on political appointees publicly available."To meet the needs of the American people, our political appointees need to reflect America. ThePolitical Appointments Inclusion and Diversity Actwould shine a light on who is at the table in our government and who is not. By publicly reporting on the demographics of appointees we will see where efforts need to be improved to ensure that our policymakers are not only talented, but diverse and representative of everyone in our country," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement.

Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez' legislation earned the support of 30 organizations: Inclusive America, Project on Government Oversight, Senior Executives Association, PolicyLink, Modern Military Association of America, Emgage USA, Women of Color Advancing Peace and Security, Mi Familia Vota, MANA - A National Latina Organization, America Indivisible, United WE, AAPI Victory Fund & AAPI Victory Alliance, Diversity in National Security Network, 18by Vote, Foreign Policy for America, Welcoming America, RespectAbility, Next Generation Politics & YVote, Code for America, IGNITE, The Sadie Collective, New American Leaders, RepresentWomen, Revolving Door Project, Ready to Launch, Eye to Eye, Good Data Institute, Generation Citizen, Young Invincibles, and Day One Project.

In support of the bill, Inclusive America stated, "ThePolitical Appointments Inclusion and Diversity Actand thePeriodically Listing Updates to Management Act(PLUM Act) are an important step towards making our political appointments more transparent and inclusive. For too long the lack of transparency of who gets these powerful positions has benefited certain segments of our society."

This bill is being considered as part of thePeriodically Listing Updates to Management Act(PLUM Act) at the June 29, 2021 Business Meeting of the Committee on Oversight and Reform. Chairwoman Maloney, Rep. Connolly, and Rep. John Sarbanes introduced the PLUM Act on March 18, 2021. The bill would provide the public with visibility into who is serving in senior leadership positions in the Executive Branch. The bill would require OPM to establish and maintain a current, publicly available directory of senior government leaders online.

Thefull text of thePolitical Appointments Inclusion and DiversityAct is available here.

Thefull text of the updatedPLUM Actis available here.==
Title: Moulton, Ocasio-Cortez, Costa, Markey and Gillibrand Lead Coalition of Democrats in Push for High-Speed Rail Funding
Date: June 16, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON — Today,Representatives Seth Moulton, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, and Jim Costa and Senators Ed Markey and Kirsten Gillibrandbegan circulating a bicameral letter addressed to the committee chairs and leadership of both chambers. They are seeking increased funding for high-speed rail in the American Jobs Plan. The group represents a broad coalition within the Democratic party making a united appeal to fund high-speed rail at levels that equal the funding Congress provides to road and air travel.

In the letter, the lawmakers said,"With the new administration, we have a generational opportunity to invest in our nation's infrastructure, and we are grateful for your leadership in ensuring we invest in next generation infrastructure, not just the infrastructure of the past. As negotiations continue to develop around a comprehensive infrastructure package, we write to express our support for the inclusion of dedicated funding to develop international-standard high-speed rail with high-performance connections that feed into a larger network. A federal commitment to these modern and proven transportation systems will dramatically improve our environment, reduce inequity, and help grow cities and sustain vibrant downtowns across the nation."

The letter has received early endorsements from the following organizations as of press time: The American Public Transportation Association (APTA); The High Speed Rail Alliance; The U.S. High Speed Rail Association; Former Amtrak Vice President of High-Speed Rail and Immediate Past Chair of the APTA High-Speed and Intercity Passenger Rail Committee Al Engel; Brightline Trains; SYSTRA USA; Building America's Future; Emeritus Chair of California High Speed Rail Authority and former APTA Chair Rod Dirido; the American Train Dispatchers Association; National Conference of Firemen & Oilers, SEIU; American Train Dispatchers Association; HJI Group Corporation; Cascadia Rail; and Transportation for Massachusetts.

The full text of the letter is as follows:

Dear Leader Schumer, Speaker Pelosi, Leader McConnell, Leader McCarthy, Chair Cantwell, Chairman DeFazio, Ranking Member Wicker, and Ranking Member Graves:

With the new administration, we have a generational opportunity to invest in our nation's infrastructure, and we are grateful for your leadership in ensuring we invest in next generation infrastructure, not just the infrastructure of the past. As negotiations continue to develop around a comprehensive infrastructure package, we write to express our support for the inclusion of dedicated funding to develop international-standard high-speed rail with high-performance connections that feed into a larger network. A federal commitment to these modern and proven transportation systems will dramatically improve our environment, reduce inequity, and help grow cities and sustain vibrant downtowns across the nation.

Reducing emissions from the transportation sector is critical to meeting our nation's climate goals and cutting our carbon footprint. According to an Environmental Protection Agency report, the transportation sector accounted for 28 percent of total greenhouse gas emissions from 1990 to 2018, making it the largest contributing sector.[1]

A robust network of high-speed rail corridors with high-performance connections is the best option to dramatically reduce carbon emissions while improving intercity travel. It will be decades before aviation is carbon-free, and electric cars – although vital – will not improve highway speeds. By contrast, electrified high-speed rail will capture a significant portion of demand for travel between 250 and 1000 miles with greater efficiency than flying or driving. Notably, the average and median distances of American long-distance travel are 744 and 391 miles, respectively.[2] High-speed rail also dramatically reduces land use: a single high-speed rail line matches the capacity of six highway lanes, 91 airport gates, and two new runways.

As we rebuild coming out of the pandemic, investing in a high-speed rail network with high-performance rail connections will create direct, good-paying, and secure jobs immediately, while enabling long-term economic growth across whole megaregions and providing vital access to opportunity for smaller communities. Good-paying jobs provide benefits through construction and engineering, steel production, and manufacturing in the rail sector, but also result in economic development around stations both in major cities and in intermediate communities. High-speed rail also reduces regional disparities—as it did in China by an average of 25% [3]—through increased access to jobs and housing. A high-speed rail line from Chicago to Atlanta is equivalent to Beijing to Shanghai, and would connect the people and economies of intermediate cities like Indianapolis, Louisville, Nashville, and Chattanooga with two top-ten Gross Metropolitan Product metropolises.

A recent study by Microsoft, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia of the Cascadia Corridor estimated $355 billion in economic benefits from building a 250 mph high-speed rail line, a 10:1 return on investment. Consider an alternative: adding a lane of highway in each direction would cost more than twice as much, the study estimates, and accrue almost no additional economic benefits because travel times would not improve. Likewise, making only modest investments to existing rail service would provide travelers with an attractive alternative to driving, but would not improve overall travel times enough to generate anywhere near this scale of economic benefits. Even countries like Morocco, with roughly half a percent of the U.S. GDP, are building true high-speed rail because the return on investment is so positive.

Properly designed, high-speed trunk lines form the backbone of a broader integrated network. Airport connections to high-speed rail in Europe and Asia are routine, as are higher-speed feeders, and local connections speed travelers at low environmental cost to their destinations. Germany and France, for instance, have prioritized high-speed rail for domestic travel, with connections to airports for international travel. In San Jose, California, high-speed rail will connect to a hub with six rail systems and several bus lines at Diridon Station. Seamless connections such as this boost the ridership and economic efficiency of all the component elements. In addition, a series of high-performance rail lines will ensure that smaller and more historically disadvantaged communities have their own connections into a larger national network of travel and opportunity.

As Congress advances legislation to build back better as a nation, we urge you to create a carve-out for dedicated high-speed rail corridor planning and development grants, which will enable investments in high-speed and high-performance rail. In the event that Congress advances the American Jobs Plan through budget reconciliation, we request that you raise the topline funding levels for transportation in the budget resolution above the American Jobs Plan number to include dedicated high-speed rail corridor planning and development funding with high-performance rail connections. This will demonstrate that the federal government is ready to commit as a partner in developing high-speed rail corridors across the United States, connecting communities, enhancing economic development, and protecting our environment.

Thank you for your full and fair consideration of these requests. We stand ready to work with you to deliver an infrastructure package for the American people.

Sincerely,...

CC:Chairman Sanders, United States Senate Committee on the Budget

Chairman Yarmuth, United States House Committee on the Budget

Ranking Member Graham, United States Senate Committee on the Budget

Ranking Member Smith, United States House Committee on the Budget

[1] United States Environmental Protection Agency, "Fast Facts: U.S. Transportation Sector Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1990-2018, accessed March 18, 2021

[2] Bureau of Transportation Statistics, "National Household Travel Survey Long Distance Travel," accessed May 21, 2021

[3] Zhenhua Chen, Kingsley Haynes, "Impact of High-Speed Rail on Regional Economic Disparity in China | Elsevier Enhanced Reader," accessed February 2, 2021 
Links to all citations available upon request.###==
Title: AOC Leads 110 Members in Calling on Congress to Reverse Cuts to Staff Salaries
Date: June 14, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, 110 Members of Congress delivered a letter to the House Appropriations Committee asking they provide sufficient funding to retain competent House staff. Currently, the average House staff member leaves after only three years, and recentreportingsuggests the House may be facing a staff exodus.

Incredibly, House staff salaries last year were effectively cut 20.7% from the Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) ten-year baseline projection for House staff salaries and expenses from 2011. Today's letter urges a 21% increase in the Member Representational Allowance (MRA), committee budgets, and leadership office budgets for fiscal year 2022 to erase that gap. The full letter is availablehere. Quotes from sponsoring Members follow."It is unjust for Congress to budget a living wage for ourselves, yet rely on unpaid interns and underpaid, overworked staff just because some conservatives want to make a statement about "fiscal responsibility,"said Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortezin a statement. "The lack of diversity on the Hill can be traced directly to our failure to pay staff a living wage. Low-pay also contributes to the undue influence of money in politics, with experienced Hill staffers frequently leaving to work for lobbyists and other special interests. This investment will create a stronger Congress and better policy for the country.""My mission in Congress is to support working people—to bring them better jobs, better wages and better protections. I'd be a hypocrite not to do the same for the people who work for me. Better pay for House staff isn't just a labor issue, it's a good governance issue. The American people benefit when staffers have valuable experience and come from diverse backgrounds. Funding for staff salaries will ensure the House workforce isn't made up of the wealthy and well-connected, but of dedicated public servants who bring the knowledge and passion needed to best serve the working people of this country,"said Rep. Andy Levin

"Our staff provide critical services to constituents every day. If we are going to attract and retain an expert and diverse workforce, we have to remain competitive with the private sector. This investment will help keep our talented staff and stem the brain drain from public service,"said Staff Director on Subcommittee on Government Operations, Wendy Ginsberg

"Increasing the pay and benefits for the staff of Member offices, leadership offices, and committees is common sense,"Rep Eric. Swalwell said. "For years, these salaries have fallen further and further behind what is offered in the private sector making it difficult to recruit and retain a diverse and talented workforce. If we want the halls of Congress to look more like the districts we represent, this increase should be a no-brainer.""Capitol Hill is full of bright public servants who want to improve the lives of the American people. But Hill staffers are paid notoriously low salaries, which contributes to high turnover rates and makes it difficult to recruit individuals from diverse backgrounds. And D.C. is an expensive city to live in!Increasing the MRA will allow each office to retain talented staffers and build a strong, experienced Capitol Hill workforce that reflects America,"said Rep. Gwen Moore."Congress could not run without the countless public servants who work tirelessly behind the scenes. For far too long, low Congressional staff salaries have deterred many working-class and people of color from pursuing a job on Capitol Hill. Right now, 70% of Congressional staff are white. In my office, we have paid all of our interns and staff a living wage to maintain a staff that reflects the diversity of our district. Expanding the MRA will increase the applicant pool for Congressional staff positions and overall help reflect the diversity of America,"said Rep. Ilhan Omar."As we advocate for living wages for all working people across this country, we must do the same for those who work tirelessly to keep our offices -- and our government -- running,"said Congressman Mondaire Jones."Allowing congressional staff to live in dignity is about reducing staff turnover, building institutional knowledge in the halls of Congress, and diversifying the pool of public servants who can afford to work in our government. That's why I'm proud to stand with Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez and our colleagues in urging Appropriations Chairwoman DeLauro to increase our yearly budget by 21 percent. It's time we pay our staff the salaries they deserve.""My commitment to ensuring all Americans earn a living wage begins right here in my own office,"said Congressman David Trone."In order to attract staffers that will mirror the diversity of America and understand constituent needs, we must increase staff salaries and offer more competitive benefits, such as child-care subsidies. This funding will open doors for many, and infuse Capitol Hill with bright, new talent.""Our staff should look like the communities we represent. They work every day to serve our constituents diligently with passion and commitment. As living costs go up, it is a matter of logic and principle to provide them with living wages so they can continue serving our constituents without having to worry how will they pay rent or if they will have to get a second job to make ends meet,"said Congresswoman Sylvia R. Garcia (TX-29)."We need to make sure we are providing them with enough incentives, so we can retain diverse talent, especially from communities of color and the Latino community, who will bring innovation to the way we tackle our society's most pressing issues.""Congressional staffers perform critical work because they believe in the importance of public service. Every day, they draft legislation, perform important services for constituents, and keep our government working,"said Rep. David Cicilline (RI-01)."They have continued serving our country through a pandemic and the worst attack on the U.S. Capitol since the Civil War. Yet, their wages have continued to fall further and further behind the private sector. We should want the best and brightest to stay in public service. That's why it's so important to restore these cuts and make it easier for more talented individuals to serve their country.""A career in public service shouldn't translate to unsustainable, unlivable low-wages,"said Rep. Khanna."If we want to continue to recruit the best and the brightest to inspire change in the halls of Congress, we need to pay them a living salary. While I'm proud to offer my team comprehensive paid leave and livable salaries, I recognize that other staffers across the building are not so fortunate. Increasing the MRA will allow Congressional staff to spend more time crafting policy and less time at their second or third jobs.""In Congress, there is no resolution, no bill, no hearing, and no money appropriated without the hard work and diligence of congressional staff,"said Congressman Al Green in a statement."I proudly stand with 109 of my colleagues by co-signing this letter to the Appropriations Committee, requesting sufficient funding to pay our staff because I support the people that not only support Congress but support our nation as a whole.""Paying Congressional staff a living wage will help diversify the halls of Congress, ensure a diversity of lived experience at the decision-making table, and increase opportunities for staff from historically marginalized communities—all while offering fair compensation for hard work,"said Rep. Pressley."This critical investment is a long overdue, common-sense solution that will help strengthen our democracy long-term."==
Title: Velázquez & Ocasio-Cortez on Justice Department’s Decision to Uphold Constitutionality of Law Denying SSI to Puerto Rico
Date: June 8, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.– Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) released the following joint statement in response to the White House'sannouncementthat the Department of Justice (DOJ) will file a brief in the caseUnited States v. Vaello-Maderoto uphold the constitutionality of the current law, which excludes Puerto Ricans from receiving the federal Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefit."We are deeply disappointed by DOJ's decision to support the constitutionality of a law that clearly delegates Puerto Ricans to a second-class status in the United States. When it comes to ensuring parity in federal benefits for the territories, this is a missed opportunity to do right by the people of Puerto Rico."We are, however, encouraged by President Biden's support of Congress passing legislation to extend SSI and other federal benefits to Puerto Rico. We call on the President and our fellow members of Congress to support the Territorial Equity Act, which would provide overdue access to federal benefits including SSI, Medicaid, SNAP, and popular tax credits to residents of Puerto Rico and other U.S. territories. The denial of these benefits for so long has allowed residents of the territories to fall behind, we cannot afford to wait any longer to fix this injustice."==
Title: GILLIBRAND, MENG, OCASIO-CORTEZ TO PUSH FOR FEDERAL FUNDING TO FIGHT MATERNAL MORTALITY AT ELMHURST HOSPITAL
Date: June 3, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, N.Y.--- U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Representative Grace Meng, member of the House Appropriations Committee, and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will stand in front of Elmhurst Hospital to advocate for the much-needed renovation of New York City Health + Hospitals Elmhurst Obstetrical Inpatient facilities, in order to provide a more modern, safe, and equitable maternal health care experience to surrounding working class and immigrant communities. They will be joined by Queens Borough President Donovan Richards, Dr. Mitchell Katz, President and Chief Executive Officer of NYC Health + Hospitals (NYC H+H), and Helen Arteaga Landaverde, Chief Executive Officer of Elmhurst Hospital.

At the height of the pandemic, Elmhurst was one of the hardest-hit communities in the country. The Elmhurst public hospital, which serves a majority immigrant population across Jackson Heights, Elmhurst, and Corona, struggled to keep up with the harrowing demand from patients. Large numbers of residents in the community work in construction, food service, and other jobs where remote work was not possible, and where they often had to choose between risking their health and losing a paycheck.

Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Meng recently submitted a joint community funding request for $3,000,000 for FY 2022 to House Appropriators. If the funding request is fulfilled, Elmhurst Hospital would be able to provide a more modern, safe, and comfortable family-centered environment that also meets current privacy standards.When giving birth, privacy leads to a quieter environment which promotes recovery,provides for better infection control,andis better for bonding between parents and their babies. Healthy breastfeeding is also fostered in single rooms.Read the public text of the lawmakers' funding requesthere.

Gillibrandrecently announcedtheModernizing Obstetric Medicine Standards(MOMS) ActandMaternal CARE Actto help address the disproportionate rate of maternal deaths among Black and brown women.==
Title: LEADER SCHUMER, REPS. AOC & BOWMAN CALL FOR FUNDING FOR YOUTH VIOLENCE REDUCTION PROGRAM, ‘STAND UP TO VIOLENCE’
Date: June 3, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
THE BRONX, NY- On Thursday, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Jamaal Bowman urged Congress to provide nearly $400,000 to Jacobi Hospital's youth violence reduction program - ‘Stand Up to Violence.' This press conference followed a violent Memorial Day, in which more than a dozen were shot and a 15-year-old Bronxite was killed in shootings across all five boroughs.

The funding would be used to add a mental health services component to the Stand Up to Violence (SUV) Program. Modeled after the Chicago based Cure Violence program, SUV deploys outreach workers to respond to shootings to prevent retaliation and to assist family members of those who have been injured or killed. Additionally, they mentor at-risk youth on educational and job opportunities. The additional $400k would allow SUV to add an emergency room social worker, case worker, part time psychiatrist and a creative arts or music therapist."I'm proud to support with my colleagues Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Bowman, additional federal funds needed for the excellent violence prevention and reduction program at NYC Health + Hospitals/Jacobi. Youth who have participated in the program we want to advance, Stand Up to Violence (SUV), are 52% less likely to be injured in another violent trauma post program completion. It's critical that we ensure this program is funded to support the family and friends, especially the youth, of gun violence victims to prevent the ripple effect after violence tragically occurs,"said U.S. Senator Charles Schumer."As a father and as a former educator, I am thinking of the trauma that our communities have gone through — not just due to COVID over the past year, but the trauma that these communities have been going through for decades," saidRep. Bowman. "The Stand Up to Violence Program at NYC Health + Hospitals/Jacobi and other Cure Violence programs around the country are exactly what we need to rethink, reimagine, and redesign public safety. Now it's time to fully invest in them and increase their capacity to address mental health, and that is why I am proud to advocate for this Community Project Funding to bring transformative change to our community and save lives.""When you actually open the door to a jail, and look at who's inside, an enormous amount of people are dealing with untreated mental health issues. And it is not acceptable for us to use jails as garbage bins for human beings. We need to treat people and see them as human. And so it is not a place for us to throw people for whom we don't want to invest in the actual holistic issues of their lives. If we want to reduce violent crime, if we want to reduce the number of people in our jails, the answer is to stop building more of them. The answer is to make sure that we actually build more hospitals, we pay organizers, we get people mental health care, and overall health care, employment, etc. It's to support communities, not throw them away," saidRep. Ocasio-Cortez

"We deeply appreciate the efforts of Leader Schumer and Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Bowman to provide funding to NYC Health + Hospitals/Jacobi's Stand Up to Violence (SUV) Program to help address gun violence, a public health issue nationwide,"said Mitchell Katz, MD, President and CEO of NYC Health + Hospitals."The program is rooted in the idea that violence is a disease, and should be treated with methods and strategies used to fight diseases.""SUV's innovative model has saved lives by preventing violence and retaliatory violence before it strikes,"said NYC Health + Hospitals/Jacobi's Chief Executive Officer Christopher Mastromano."This additional funding will allow us to offer wraparound therapeutic treatment to patients to help address root causes of youth violence, and make it possible to reach more Bronxites and do more to stop the disease of gun violence.""My heart breaks for the victims of gun violence whose lives were lost this past holiday weekend. The epidemic of gun violence continues to take innocent lives from our communities across the Bronx and New York City, and it is part of our responsibility as legislators to advocate for the necessary support and resources our grieving communities urgently need. The Stand Up to Violence Program and its partnership with the Jacobi Hospital have had an invaluable impact on the Bronx community. I stand with Senator Schumer, Representative Bowman, and Representative Ocasio-Cortez in advocating for additional mental health resources and funding for the Stand Up to Violence Program,"said Senator Alessandra Biaggi.

Both Bowman and Ocasio-Cortez requested the funding for Jacobi's Stand Up to Violence (SUV) in May as part of their ‘community project funding' requests - aka ‘earmarks.' In the spirit of transparency, more background on the Congresswoman's community project funding process, along with a list of her other earmark requests, are availablehere.==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Pocan & Tlaib Lead Joint Resolution to Block Weapon Sales to Netanyahu
Date: May 19, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Mark Pocan, and Rashida Tlaib led the introduction of a Houseresolutionopposing the sale of $735 million in American-made weapons to the Israeli government.According to the Washington Post, "the bulk of the proposed sale is of Joint Direct Attack Munitions, or JDAMS, kits that transform so-called "dumb" bombs into precision-guided missiles," which the U.S. has also sold to Israel in the past. JDAMS are believed tobe usedin the current violence, which has killed ten Israelis and over 200 Palestinians, including at least 58 children."For decades, the U.S. has sold billions of dollars in weaponry to Israel without ever requiring them to respect basic Palestinian rights. In so doing, we have directly contributed to the death, displacement and disenfranchisement of millions,"said Rep. Ocasio-Cortezin a statement. "At a time when so many, including President Biden, support a ceasefire, we should not be sending ‘direct attack' weaponry to Prime Minister Netanyahu to prolong this violence.""The harsh truth is that these weapons are being sold by the United States to Israel with the clear understanding that the vast majority of them will be used to bomb Gaza. Approving this sale now, while failing to even try to use it as leverage for a ceasefire, sends a clear message to the world – the U.S. is not interested in peace, and does not care about the human rights and lives of Palestinians. You cannot claim to support human rights and peace on Earth and continue to back the extremist Netanyahu regime, it's that simple,"saidRep. Tlaibin a statement."Members of Congress have repeatedly requested a ceasefire in Israel and Palestine, yet once again, Benjamin Netanyahu has refused,"said Congressman Pocan. "That leaves us at a point where the only way to prevent innocent children and others from being killed is to take a necessary look at future weapons sales to the region. Peace in Israel and Palestine is in everyone's best interest, and if anyone refuses that, we must question how they use our assistance and possibly condition future assistance."

Once the President officially notifies Congress of intended weapons sales, Members of Congress have 15 days to submit and vote on a resolution of disapproval opposing the sale - in this case, any day on or before May 20, 2021.However, after that time period has lapsed, Congress can still block or modify any sale up to the point of delivery.

The initial co-sponsors on the resolution areCori Bush, Betty McCollum, Ayanna Pressley, Ilhan Omar, Pramila Jayapal and Andre Carson. The resolution text was circulated to all Members for the first time Wednesday morning.The resolution is also endorsed by over 70 organizations, including IfNotNow, Defense for Children International - Palestine, Center for Constitutional Rights, Jewish Voice for Peace Action, Justice Democrats, Demand Progress, Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), Just Foreign Policy, and Progressive Democrats of America."It is unconscionable that, in the middle of a violent conflict that has taken the lives of over 200 people, including over 60 children, that we would continue to sell weapons to one of the parties committing those human rights abuses. Let's be clear: these are the exact bombs being used to kill children in Gaza right now. This is the worst possible timing for us to be sending munitions that are being dropped on schools, refugee camps, media offices, and COVID clinics in Gaza. But let's make no mistake – even if the current escalation wasn't raging, Congress should be questioning the sales of these types of weapons to Israel—and any country in the world that has committed human rights abuses. The United States should be doing everything in our power to bring about an immediate end to this conflict and the carnage it has caused, not continuing to sell Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu the very bombs used to kill Palestinian children,"said Rep Omar."Our government is directly complicit in the human rights atrocities being inflicted by the Israeli military on Palestinians, and it is our job as members of Congress to make sure that we stop funding these abuses. In the midst of a deadly pandemic, the Israeli military, which is one of the most advanced militaries in the world, is attacking a largely defenseless, captive civilian Palestinian population. In Gaza, we are witnessing bombing near hospitals and schools, deliberately targeting residential buildings where families live. These atrocities are being funded by billions of our own American tax dollars while communities like mine in St. Louis are hurting and are in need of life-affirming investment here at home. As a country, we must stand up for the human rights of all people while insisting that our country prioritizes funding life, not destruction,"said Rep. Bush.

A full list of endorsing organizations follow: IfNotNow, Defense for Children International - Palestine, Center for Constitutional Rights, Jewish Voice for Peace Action, Justice Democrats, Demand Progress, As the Spirit Moves Us, Indiana Center for Middle East Peace, Release Aging People in Prison/RAPP, United Vision for Idaho, American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, Labor Against Racism and War, Jetpac Resource Center, Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), Mainers for Accountable Leadership, Baptist Peace Fellowship of North America, Peace Action, National Writers Union, World BEYOND War, Progressive Democrats of America, AFSC, Just Foreign Policy, Presbyterian Church (USA), African Public Affairs Committee, Dream Defenders, Delawareans for Palestinian Human Rights (DelPHR), United Church of Christ Palestine Israel Network, Cairo Institute for Human Rights Studies, Historians for Peace and Democracy, Project South, Center for Civilians in Conflict, WESPAC Foundation, Inc., Massachusetts Peace Action, Last Mile Math, Palestine Legal, Arab Resource & Organizing Center (AROC), Grassroots Global Justice Alliance, MPower Action, Rethinking Foreign Policy, Security Policy Reform Institute (SPRI), Arab American Civic Council, Freedom Forward, Institute for Policy Studies New Internationalism Project, Migrant Roots Media, Reviving the Islamic Sisterhood for Empowerment, American Muslims for Palestine, Democracy for the Arab World Now (DAWN), Pax Christi USA, Ban KillerDrones.org, Chicago Faith Coalition for Middle East Peace, Muslim Democrats of Lucas County, Eyewitness Palestine, Action Center on Race & the Economy, Palestine Advocacy Project, Sisters of St. Dominic of Caldwell ,Virginia Coalition for Human Rights, Facing Abuse in Community Environments, Democratic Socialists of America and Palestine Solidarity Working Group, Showing Up for Racial Justice (SURJ), Human Rights Awareness:Palestine Israel, Center on Conscience & War, International Civil Society Action Network (ICAN), Indivisible Illinois, ADC GA CHAPTER, The Jerusalem Legal Aid and Human Rights Center (JLAC), Episcopal Peace Fellowship - Palestine Israel Network, Our Revolution Virginia Justice Democrats, Project Blueprint, Arab American Institute (AAI), Jews for Racial & Economic Justice, Arab Jewish Partnership for Peace and Justice in the Middle East, Muslims for Progress

==
Title: Rep. AOC, 34 Members Urge Biden to Reform Immigration Policies
Date: May 17, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Thirty-four members of Congress led by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez sent a letter to the Biden Administration urging them to reform their policies regarding immigration enforcement. The full letter can be readhere."We are in a moment of racial reckoning in this country, with communities across the country calling for an end to mass incarceration and racist policing. It is time to end the carceral approach to immigration, which relies on these same flawed systems. Instead, we urge the Biden Administration to pursue humane and just immigration policies that aim to end mass incarceration, criminalization and deportation of immigrants," reads the letter.

The group noted three specific flaws with the interim memorandum issued in February. First, the memorandum identifies anyone who entered the country after November 20, 2020 as an enforcement priority. This arbitrary date puts an untold number of people fleeing imminent danger at risk.

Second, the current guidance instructs ICE officers that if they have a "good faith belief" that an immigrant has been convicted of an "aggravated felony" that the immigrant should be prioritized for removal. The category "aggravated felony" is notoriously overly broad, including offenses such as state drug misdemeanors. Also, leaving this determination to officers' "good faith" discretion all but ensures that this rule will be applied unevenly.

Finally, the Biden Administration's current guidance prioritizes an immigrant for deportation if they have been convicted of an offense in which an element was "active participation" in a gang or someone older than 16 who "intentionally participated" in a gang. Once again, leaving ICE to determine what qualifies as an "element" of an offense risks that this guidance could be applied overly broadly. Also problematic, the later part of this guidance does not appear to require that someone was actually charged or convicted, a "good faith belief" is enough.

The letter was signed by Reps. Barbara Lee, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Adriano Espaillat, Ayanna Pressley, Juan Vargas, Cori Bush, Pramila Jayapal, David Trone, Grace F. Napolitano, Grace Meng, Diana DeGette, James P. McGovern, Jamaal Bowman, Ed.D., Adam Smith, Earl Blumenauer, Mark Takano, Jan Schakowsky, Ritchie Torres, Jesús G. "Chuy" García, Mark Pocan, Rashida Tlaib, Alan Lowenthal, Judy Chu, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr., Peter Welch, Nydia M. Velázquez, Yvette D. Clarke, Raúl Grijalva, Jason Crow, Sylvia R. Garcia, Danny K. Davis, and Carolyn B. Maloney."Immigrants seeking asylum are not criminals. They have always had the right—under domestic and international law—to legally seek aid and humanitarian relief at our borders. I'm proud to join my colleague Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in a letter requesting DHS to overturn the last administration's dangerous agenda and pursue humane policies moving forward," saidRep. Juan Vargas. "I am urging the new DHS secretary to take our concerns into consideration when updating DHS civil immigration enforcement guidelines and to do everything in his power to provide immigrants with adequate protections.""Our immigration system is broken and we must ensure humanity lies at the core of our efforts to address the crisis individuals and families at our border continue to face," saidRep. Adriano Espaillat. "We have made progress in these first few months of the Biden-Harris administration, but more is needed. I'm glad to join my colleagues in strongly urging new guidance to ensure adequate protection, due process and human rights for vulnerable immigrants and asylum seekers who are counting on our nation the most at this critical time.""Asylum seekers and refugees have a legal right to seek protection in our country,"said Rep. Judy Chu."Seeking asylum is legal immigration, and those who do are deserving of due process and certain protections under our laws. Guidelines that ignore these basic protections and legal rights are based on the lie that immigrants impose a security threat to the U.S. This unfounded and xenophobic view has long been used to justify anti-immigrant policies. Many studies on immigrant crime rates have proven that immigrants commit fewer crimes than U.S. citizens. Furthermore, our country has one of the best vetting systems in the world. We urge the Biden administration to adopt guidelines that reject racist views of asylees and refugees and instead aim to protect their rights as legal immigrants.""At a moment when we are seeing rampant human rights abuses accelerating across the globe, we have a duty to prioritize human rights in our own immigration system,"said Rep. Pocan. "Our immigration system should not be rooted in criminalizing refugees and immigrants. We should not be giving ICE power to dictate who is and who is not worthy of entering our country—period.""For too long, our unjust immigration and criminal legal systems have driven the mass incarceration crisis, separated families and harmed our communities for generations,"said Rep. Pressley. "The Biden Administration must meet this moment by pursuing policies to stop the criminalization of our immigrant neighbors and affirm the dignity and humanity of all people, regardless of immigration status."==
Title: Reps. Ocasio-Cortez, Cohen and Bonamici See Their Amendment Prohibiting Collection of ‘Zombie Debt’ Pass the House
Date: May 13, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, anamendmentprohibiting the collection of ‘zombie debt' passed the House, as part of H.R. 2547, the Comprehensive Debt Collection Improvement Act. The amendment was offered by Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Steve Cohen and Suzanne Bonamici.

Most debts have a statute of limitations, but some predatory lenders still seek payment on these time-barred debts - deliberately attempting to deceive vulnerable individuals. This amendment makes that harassment illegal."Debt collectors are preying on seniors and other consumers - trying to harass them into paying a debt that they no longer legally owe," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement. "Some victims have seen their credit scores lowered, while others missed work to attend court hearings and paid exorbitant legal fees to end the harassment. Our amendment ends this nightmare and honors the intent of our existing laws on zombie debt.""Predatory debt collection is an unacceptable practice that takes advantage of our communities' neediest. I'm proud to join my colleagues in passing the Comprehensive Debt Collection Improvement Act, and I'm pleased my amendment prohibiting debt collectors from using abusive tactics to collect expired debts was included. This addition will protect consumers and empower them to get on with their lives, becauseno one's life should be interrupted by debt collectors aggressively trying to collect already-expired debt," said Rep. Steve Cohen in a statement.

Predatory debt collectors have been known to go to extraordinarily deceptive lengths to seek payment on time-barred debts. According topublic commentscollected by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, some lenders have harassed family members and employers, initiated legal proceedings and even falsified documents --- all to seek repayment of debt that is no longer owed. The victims had often made good-faith efforts for years to pay back extraordinary medical debt or debt accumulated by former partners, only to face undue harassment that deteriorated their mental health and further weakened their financial security.

The full amendment can be viewedhere.==
Title: Following Death of Bronx Community Member, Pressley, Ocasio-Cortez, Espaillat, Warren Reintroduce the Andrew Kearse Act
Date: May 12, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Legislation Holds Police Officers Criminally Liable for Denying Medical Care to People in Custody 
Bill Text (PDF)|One-Pager (PDF)

WASHINGTON– Late Tuesday, on the 4thanniversary of Andrew Kearse's death,Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley (MA-07)andSenator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA),along withRepresentatives Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)andAlexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), led their colleagues in reintroducing the Andrew Kearse Accountability for Denial of Medical Care Act to hold law enforcement officers criminally liable for failing to obtain medical assistance to people in custody experiencing medical distress.

On May 11, 2017, Andrew Kearse, a 36-year-old Black man, died of a heart attack in the back of a police cruiser after begging a police officer for help. Instead of providing Mr. Kearse with medical assistance, the officer dismissed his pleas and waited precious minutes until after Mr. Kearse became nonresponsive to call for medical assistance. Despite failing to seek potentially life-saving care for Mr. Kearse, the officer involved was not charged with a crime. The Andrew Kearse Act wasfirst introducedin 2020 after the lawmakers committed to introduce the legislationduring a conversationwith Andrew's widow, Angelique Negroni-Kearse."There can be no justice for Andrew Kearse or the many others who have died after being denied medical care while in custody. Justice would mean they'd still be alive today. There must, however, be accountability,"said Congresswoman Pressley."We must pursue policies that keep Black, brown and other marginalized folks alive. If, God forbid, they die at the hands of law enforcement, the officer responsible cannot just simply walk away. I'm grateful to my colleagues for their partnership on this legislation and look forward to continuing our work to build a just legal system that centers the dignity and humanity of all people.""Andrew Kearse died begging for help and the police officer who looked the other way got off scot-free. Our bill will make sure that officers who fail to obtain potentially life-saving care for people in their custody are held accountable,"said Senator Warren."This legislation is just one step - I will keep working with my colleagues for a complete overhaul of our policing and justice systems.""Andrew Kearse's story is heartbreaking and unacceptable, and there's no question that he should be alive today,"said Congressman Espaillat. "Every law enforcement officer should have mandatory training to provide medical assistance, and any officer who is negligent or refuses medical care to an individual in their custody will be held criminally liable their cruel inaction. An arrest is not a death sentence – nobody should be denied life-saving medical care while in police custody, and this bill is a step towards accountability.""There is so much that has to be done to reimagine a criminal justice system that is fundamentally designed to dehumanize our communities,"said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez. "The Andrew Kearse Act is a critical first step. Mr. Kearse's death was a direct result of that officer's actions and, yet, the officer faced no criminal charges. For Mr. Kearse, and so many others, we must demand accountability."

The Andrew Kearse Accountability for Denial of Medical Care Act would:"I want to thank all of you who have shown continued support not only for me and my husband but for everyone who has fought the good fight. I want the names of Andrew Kearse, Eric Garner, Mike Brown and George Floyd to not be a passing memory but something that sticks with us through the toughest of times so that we can remember the trials and tribulations those before us have suffered. I also want to thank Senator Warren and Ayanna Pressley for helping with the passing of the Andrew Kearse law. I want to strive for a future where the words I can't breathe come from a place of laughter not from a place of fear. A future where our youth doesn't have to worry if it's their last day on earth. A future where everyone can breathe,"said Angelique Negroni-Kearse, widow of Andrew Kearse.

The Andrew Kearse Act is informed by Rep. Pressley'sPeople's Justice Guarantee, her comprehensive, decarceration-focused resolution that outlines a framework for a fair, equitable and just legal system that shifts resources away from institutions that perpetuate brutality and injustice and invest in solutions that promote community safety and center the dignity and humanity of all people.==
Title: The Bronx & Queens to Receive Hundreds of Millions from American Rescue Plan
Date: May 11, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.— The Treasury Departmentannouncedthat The Bronx and Queens will soon received $275.47 million and $437.785 million, respectively, as part of the critical funding for states and localities that was passed by Congress in the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) voted in support of the bill, which will also send $4 billion to New York City and $12 billion to the State.

The Coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds may be used for infrastructure, including expanding internet access and improving drinking water; for public health efforts to stop community spread of COVID-19; to support workers and small businesses who lost income due to the pandemic or whose employment continues to place them at elevated risk of contracting the pandemic; and to replace lost tax revenue, among other uses.

According to the Treasury Department, "Local governments should expect to receive funds in two tranches, with 50% provided beginning in May 2021 and the balance delivered 12 months later. States that have experienced a net increase in the unemployment rate of more than 2 percentage points from February 2020 to the latest available data as of the date of certification will receive their full allocation of funds in a single payment; other states will receive funds in two equal tranches."==
Title: Rep. AOC Releases Statement on Sheikh Jarrah
Date: May 7, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.— Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released the following statement on the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood."We stand in solidarity with the Palestinian residents of The Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood in East Jerusalem. The Israeli military is forcing families from their homes during the Holy Month of Ramadan and inflicting violence. It is inhumane and the U.S. must show more leadership in safeguarding Palestinian rights."==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Releases a Statement on State Killings of Colombian Protestors
Date: May 6, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY— Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez released the following statement on the state killings of Colombian protestors and the hundreds more injured in recent demonstrations against anti-working class reforms."We stand with our Colombian brothers and sisters, in NY-14 and abroad, against the state killings of protestors. All people should have a fundamental right to demonstrate against their elected leaders. These citizens were protesting against anti-working class reforms and, for that, they lost their lives. There must be accountability for the long string of human rights abuses exercised by the Colombian government."==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Nominates 10 Community Projects for Federal Funding
Date: May 5, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY -Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez announced today that she is requesting federal funding for 10 community projects that would serve New York's 14th Congressional District. The proposed projects include the East River Barge removal, foreclosure prevention counseling, youth violence interventions, educational supports, workforce training in green jobs and home healthcare, and equipment for Plaza Del Sol Health Center and Elmhurst Hospital - the later of which gained national attention for its heroic efforts serving the COVID-19 epicenter during the first wave. The Appropriations Committee solicited these requests from all Members as part of their annual spending process. The full list of nominees from NY-14 can be found below."I am excited to announce the ten NY-14 community projects we are choosing to recommend for federal funding. From reducing maternal mortality and youth violence, to training a new generation of green labor, I know these projects will be deeply impactful to our families not just in NY-14, but throughout Queens and the Bronx," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement. "I also want to extend my appreciation to all our Bronx and Queens community partners who participated in the process resulting in these 10 nominations. For months, our team worked to develop a process around these funding requests that was fair, inclusive, thorough and people-driven. We are thrilled with the results and confident that all of these projects fulfill our nation's collective goals, advance our collective pursuit of justice, and are deeply worthy of federal support."

Under guidelines issued by the Appropriations Committee, each Representative may request funding for up to 10 projects in their community for fiscal year 2022 – although only a handful may actually be funded. Funding is restricted to a limited number of project categories, and only state and local governments and eligible non-profit entities are permitted to receive funding. Additional information on the reforms governing Community Project Funding is available here.

In order to inform her project requests, the Congresswoman's office posted widely about the funding opportunity - in community boards, newsletters, social media and on town halls - and reached out to eligible groups to discuss possible projects and field questions. Proposals were ultimately evaluated based on their feasibility, cost, impact to NY-14, and service to historically underserved communities, among other criteria. More details on the selection process can be found here.

If an organization's project was not selected, there may be an opportunity for funding next year - though Congressional leaders have not yet confirmed that this process will repeat in 2022. If approved for next year, some of the considerations for strong proposals include clear objectives and scope of work, demonstration of community support, ability to manage federal grants, and depth of project planning.

Rep. Ocasio Cortez's Community Project Funding Requests for Fiscal Year 2022:

Obstetrical Inpatient Facilities Renovation

$3,000,000

New York City Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst, 79-01 Broadway, Queens, NY 11373

Elmhurst hospital requests $3 million towards the renovation of its Obstetrical Inpatient facilities in order to provide a more modern, safe, and comfortable family-centered environment, one which meets current privacy standards. There will be two basic enhancements to their Obstetric Suite: privacy and comfort. When giving birth, privacy leads to a quieter environment which promotes recovery; it provides for better infection control; it is better for bonding between moms/parents and their babies. Healthy breastfeeding is fostered in single rooms. A patient and family centered environment leads to increased patient satisfaction and better health outcomes. It is imperative to provide equitable maternal care to the working class and immigrant communities surrounding Elmhurst hospital. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Stand Up to Violence Mental Health Services Expansion

$393,839

New York City Health + Hospitals/Jacobi, 1400 Pelham Pkwy S, The Bronx, NY 10461

Jacobi Hospital requests funding to add mental health services under the umbrella of their Stand Up to Violence (SUV) Program. Modeled after the Chicago based Cure Violence program, SUV addresses youth violence in the Bronx by deploying outreach workers to respond to shootings to prevent retaliation and to assist family members of those who have been injured or killed. Additionally, they mentor at risk youth on educational and job opportunities. They are proposing the addition of an emergency room social worker, case worker, part time psychiatrist and a creative arts or music therapist, all who are experienced in treating trauma/violence. It would allow them to offer wraparound therapeutic treatment to patients to help address root causes of youth violence. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Offshore Wind Workforce Development

$795,000

State University of New York Maritime College, 6 Pennyfield Ave, The Bronx, NY 10465

SUNY Maritime requests funding to provide entry level training for high-wage earning jobs in the emerging regional offshore wind industry sector for New York State residents. Recognizing the growth in the offshore renewable energy sector, Maritime College established the Center of Excellence for Offshore Energy to focus on building a clean energy workforce and encouraging research in this growing area. Offshore Wind workforce training will be provided by their Professional Mariner Training Department, which has more than 20 years of providing professional training and education. Per New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) nearly 5,000 New York jobs could be created by the year 2035 through regional offshore wind deployment. If fully funded, for the first year, they will have the capacity to provide 24 classes and train/certify nearly 300 workers. SUNY Maritime is a member of NYSERDA's Jobs and Supply Chain Technical Working Group, along with unions and other labor groups, to ensure best labor practices within the emerging sector. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Chhaya Community Development Corporation's Capacity Building

$2,000,000

Chhaya Community Development Corporation, 37-43 77th St #2, Jackson Heights, NY 11372

Expanding Chaya's capacity to provide housing assistance through physical relocation and/or additional staffing. Procuring a long term home for Chhaya that can house front line and administrative staff and create a community space will help them expand their housing assistance services to more than the 3,000 clients per year they currently serve. For the last two decades, Chhaya has served as one of the only pan-South Asian, HUD-certified Housing Counseling Agencies in the nation.

Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies 
Creation of Family Support Counselors

$225,000

Queens Community House, 108-25 62nd Dr, Queens, NY 11375

Queens Community House is seeking funding to create a Family Support Counselor (FSC) position at each of the two alternative high schools they operate in Corona and Elmhurst in partnership with the NYC Department of Education for students who have either dropped out or fallen substantially behind in credits and are at risk of dropping out. Currently, QCH has one FSC who provides case management support across five different schools. Last year, enrollment in those five programs and the Youth Development Center was 1,434 students. A dedicated FSC position at each of the alternative high schools would deepen and enhance the support they provide to students and their families while they continue to feel the effects of the pandemic. With this additional case management capacity, students and their families will have better access to the services they need to ensure that each of these students is empowered to earn their high school diploma. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Telehealth Technology Upgrade

$96,150

Urban Health Plan - Plaza Del Sol Family Health Center, 37-16 108th Street, Corona NY 11368

Urban Health Plan is requesting funding to expand its technology capability and provide more telehealth services. During the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic in New York City, community health centers had to pivot quickly and make major technological shifts to ensure that they were able to provide telehealth services at a time when people were social distancing and/or unable to leave their homes due to illness or disability. An investment in telehealth services will allow Urban Health Plan to increase the number of individuals and families it serves, make services more readily available and convenient for people with limited mobility or transportation options, enhance patient care services, improve communication and coordination of care among members of a health care team and the patient, and provide support for self-management of health care. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Home Health Aide (HHA) Training Program

$175,000

Sunnyside Community Services, 43-31 39th St, Sunnyside, NY 11104

Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) requests funding to complete their home health aide (HHA) training program. It is an innovative workforce development program that helps un/underemployed individuals, primarily immigrant women, enter a career ladder in the healthcare field. They directly employ program graduates in unionized jobs within their two affiliated home care agencies. The requested funding will allow 300 community members to receive training, wrap-around services like the assistance of the job coach, soft skills training, and linkages to supportive services. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Expansion of Workforce Development Program

$55,000

Emerald Isle Immigration Center, 59-26 Woodside Ave, Woodside, NY 11377

Emerald Isle Immigration Center has been a service provider in Queens and the Bronx for over 30 years. They request funding to further develop their workforce development services. This program would help register and assist 250 clients with Job Counseling and training. This project, if successfully funded, also leverages other investments already made to our community through the support of the USCIS Citizenship and Integration grant and will have a measurable impact on our community in Queens and in the Bronx. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies 
Restoration & Stabilization of Two On-Water Platforms on Flushing Bay

$138,450

Coastal Preservation Network, 9-22 119th St, College Point, NY 11356

Coastal Preservation Network requests funding to stabilize and restore two public access platforms that are in dire need of repair on Flushing Bay, NY. There are currently very few sites where College Point residents can go and safely enjoy the views available in their coastal community. Refurbishing and stabilizing these platforms would enhance safety and provide waterfront access to a community that has limited open spaces. Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
Safety, Learning, and College Access Program

$100,000

Sunnyside Community Services, 43-31 39th St, Sunnyside, NY 11104

Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) requests funding to institute the Safety, Learning, and College Access program at the Woodside Houses Cornerstone community center, a public housing-based community center in Woodside, Queens. Funding would go towards supporting 70 young people who are primarily low-income people of color, supplementing existing educational services to offer the "Too Good for Violence" curriculum, which utilizes social learning theory to develop interpersonal, pro-social, and peaceful behaviors facilitated by trained staff in order to build safer relationships and communities. Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies.###==
Title: WATCH: Levin, Ocasio-Cortez Unveil Key Legislation to Enact Biden’s Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Goal
Date: May 5, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman Andy Levin (MI-09) and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) today unveiled their updated Electric Vehicle (EV) Freedom Act, which will create good-paying, union jobs nationwide, electrify America's highway system and take necessary and profound steps to combat climate change.

You can watch a press conferencehere."The EV Freedom Act is the comprehensive policy we need to make President Biden's pledge to deploy 500,000 new public charging outlets a reality and prioritizes creating good, union jobs in industries supporting vehicle electrification,"Rep. Levin said. "This bill demonstrates what good policy looks like when organized labor and environmental justice groups unify behind the banner of good jobs and a livable planet. The seriousness of the threat posed by climate change demands a transformative public policy response, and we must invest in the people and the communities that will put our plans in action. The EV Freedom Act includes strong labor provisions to focus on local workers and high-quality training programs to provide great new opportunities to a diverse population.""Over two years ago, we introduced the Green New Deal, which allowed for an entirely new frame for us to approach the climate crisis. It outright rejected this idea that jobs and justice and environmental progress are in competition with one another – and in fact, we can create a just economy and millions of union jobs by actually transitioning and decarbonizing our economy and saving our planet. The EV Freedom Act is a piece of legislation that upholds those core Green New Deal principles,"said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez."Actions policy makers take now can help ensure the U.S. leads in the deployment of the vehicles and infrastructure of the future—and that working people and communities see the gains from the clean economy. The EV Freedom Act charts a path to making critical investments in EV infrastructure while including provisions essential to ensuring that those investments safeguard and grow good jobs and boost domestic manufacturing," said Zoe Lipman, Director of Manufacturing and Advanced Transportation,BlueGreen Alliance."It's vitally important that as our nation looks to build toward the future, we're using our tax dollars to not only upgrade our physical infrastructure but also create and sustain good-paying jobs,"said Roxanne Brown, United Steelworkers International Vice President. "Legislation like the Electric Vehicle Freedom Act, with its robust Buy America provisions for charging infrastructure, will help set us on the path both toward modernizing our highway system and ensuring that this investment in American infrastructure is also an investment in American workers.""The EV Freedom Act significantly improves our ability to capture all of the domestic job-creation benefits coming from America's electric vehicle boom. The legislation introduced today makes notable improvements including stronger labor and environmental justice provisions we wholeheartedly support. Thank you Congressman Levin for spearheading this important policy initiative,"said James Slevin, Utility Workers Union of America President."Electrifying our transportation system is going to be crucial in the fight against the climate crisis. Electric vehicles should be accessible to everyone regardless of socioeconomic status. The EV Freedom Act will dramatically open up accessibility by creating a nationwide network of publicly-available electric vehicle charging stations. We thank Representatives Andy Levin and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez for their leadership on this important issue,"saidAthena Motavvef, Associate Legislative Representative at Earthjustice."With transportation now the leading source of climate pollution in the U.S., we need to electrify our cars and light trucks quickly and ensure the charging network needed to make the transition successful gets built. We appreciate Rep. Levin's and Rep. Ocasio Cortez's leadership with the EV Freedom Act,"said Ann Mesnikoff, Federal Legislative Director, the Environmental Law & Policy Center."We're excited to see Representatives Andy Levin and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez re-introduce the EV Freedom Act. This comprehensive policy would help to make pollution-free vehicles more accessible to drivers across the country. Furthermore, the EV Freedom Act prioritizes funding for environmental justice communities while creating good-paying union jobs. We urge Congress to fund clean transportation infrastructure as part of an American Jobs package to support climate action, jobs and justice,"said Darien Davis, League of Conservation Voters Government Affairs Advocate."America's next big challenge is transit and the EV Freedom Act will help us meet that challenge while Building Back Better,"said RL Miller of Climate Hawks Vote.

Specifically, the EV Freedom Act:

The EV Freedom Act directs the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Energy to devise a plan to create the network of EV chargers, submit the plan to Congress and create the network of EV chargers within five years.

The EV Freedom Act has the support of a diverse group of labor, environmental and climate groups, including:

BlueGreen Alliance; Center for Transportation and the Environment; Climate Hawks Vote; CMS Energy; Dayenu: A Jewish Call to Climate Action; DTE Energy; Earthjustice; Ecology Center; Environmental Defense Fund; Environmental Law and Policy Center; Food and Water Watch; U.S. Friends of the Earth; Labor Network for Sustainability; League of Conservation Voters; Sierra Club; Union of Concerned Scientists; United Steel Workers (USW); Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA).==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Hosts Town Hall on Green New Deal
Date: April 23, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY– Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) will host her monthly town hall for NY-14 constituents on Friday, April 23, at 5:30PM ET. At the virtual event, she will discuss the Green New Deal, which she reintroduced alongside other climate legislation this week. She will also discuss how to get up to $9,000 reimbursed through the FEMA funeral assistance program if you lost a loved one to COVID-19. Additionally, the Congresswoman will take questions from the audience.

​

There will be a press gaggle at the conclusion of the event, at approximately 6:30 PM ET. You must sign uphereto receive log-in information.

WHO: Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)

​

WHAT: 14th Congressional District Virtual Town Hall

​

WHEN: 5:30 PM EST, Friday, April 23, 2021

​

WHERE: This is a virtual event. You must sign uphereto receive log-in information.

​

***Spanish translation will be available******CART open captions can be accessedHERE***

​

###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Markey Reintroduce Green New Deal Resolution
Date: April 20, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Washington, D.C.- Tuesday morning, Senator Ed Markey and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez reintroduced the Green New Deal Resolution (GND). The lawmakers announced the reintroduction, alongside co-sponsors and leaders from the labor, environmental justice and climate movements, at a press conference in front of the National Mall, a project whose renovation was funded in part by President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. A copy of the resolution can be foundHERE.

The Green New Deal resolution envisions a 10-year national mobilization, akin to FDR's New Deal, that would put millions to work in good-paying, union jobs repairing the nation's infrastructure, reducing air and water pollution, and fighting the intertwined economic, social, racial and climate crises crippling the country. 13 new co-sponsors joined the Green New Deal resolution this year: Senator Alex Padilla and Reps. Kaiali'i Kahele, Tony Cardenas, Cori Bush, Sara Jacobs, Jake Auchincloss, Nikema Williams, Jamaal Bowman, Mondaire Jones, Ritchie Torres, Marie Newman, Katie Porter, and Teresa Leger Fernández.

In the two years since the Green New Deal was first introduced, lawmakers in both chambers of Congress have continued to introduce more than a dozen pieces of legislation across multiple sectors of the economy that build upon the principles from the resolution. Two new bills were introduced just this week:The Green New Deal for Citiesand the Civilian Climate Corps.

The Green New Deal Resolution of 2021 is also endorsed by the following organizations: Association of Flight Attendants, Service Employees International Union, People's Action, Corazon Latino, CENTER FOR POPULAR DEMOCRACY, Indivisible, The Green New Deal Network, Working Families Party, Greenpeace USA, Sunrise Movement, Justice Democrats, Organic Consumers Association, Climate Justice Alliance, Future Coalition, Labor Network for Sustainability, National Domestic Workers Alliance, Common Defense, NDN Collective, United for Respect, Sierra Club, League of Conservation Voters, United We Dream, 350.org, Grassroots Global Justice Alliance and more.

Quotes from Sen. Markey, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, select co-sponsors and endorsing organizations can be found below."The Green New Deal isn't just a resolution, it is a revolution," said Senator Markey in a statement. "In the past two years, the Green New Deal has become the DNA of climate action, and the principles of jobs, justice, and climate action are now widely represented in legislation and state and local actions across the country. The Green New Deal provides the framework we need to confront the intersecting crises our country faces -- climate change, a public health pandemic, racial injustice, and economic inequality. We can transform our economy and our democracy for all Americans by addressing the generational challenge of climate change. We have the technology to do it. We have the economic imperative. We have the moral obligation. We just need the political will.""The Green New Deal has three core components: jobs, justice and climate," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement. "The dozens of bills that have sprung from this resolution since we introduced it two years ago all contain 1) a commitment to creating good-paying union jobs; 2) prioritizing frontline and vulnerable communities disproportionately affected by climate change - including communities of color, indigenous land, deindustrialized communities and fossil fuel hubs; and 3) reducing greenhouse gas emissions from human sources by 40 to 60% within 10 years and net-zero global emissions by 2050, in line with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's finding that global temperatures must not increase more than 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrialized levels in order to avoid the most severe impacts of climate change.""Climate change is an existential threat that we need to begin tackling with bold action," said Congressman Joe Neguse. "The Green New Deal outlines a pathway for a full transition to 100 percent renewable electricity at the federal level and ensures that we leverage the skills and ingenuity of the American workforce in the process. There is no longer a debate about whether climate change is real, the only conversation left is how we reverse its course. We do not have time to wait. We are the generation that will heal our planet. I'm grateful for the leadership of my colleague Representative Ocasio-Cortez for leading this effort and mobilizing a movement of engagement around this pressing issue. Now is the time for action.""2020 saw some of the worst climate catastrophes in history—with wildfires raging on the West Coast, an increase in hurricanes and cyclones, heatwaves in Australia and the Arctic, and flooding around the world. My home state of Minnesota is one of the fastest warming states in the country. With each day that passes it becomes more and more clear that a Green New Deal is needed to confront the existential threat of the climate crisis and to create the millions of job in the process. When we introduced and pushed elements of the Green New Deal in 2019, we were called radical. Now a bold climate and jobs agenda is at the center of the new administration's policy agenda. I am proud to join this resolution—and to introduce key components of it, including the End Polluter Welfare Act and the Zero Waste Act. Together, we will confront this crisis," said Rep. Ilhan Omar."We need a Green New Deal because our children and grandchildren are getting a sorry deal from those addicted to fossil fuels and fossilized thinking," said U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas). "We need the ambitious goals of the Green New Deal to overcome the climate deniers and delayers and grow good, green jobs in an equitable and responsible way.""We need to prepare America for our future, and that means reorienting our economy to focus on people while ensuring a healthy climate for future generations. That is why I am so proud to once again join Rep. Ocasio-Cortez to reintroduce the Green New Deal. After yet another historic recession, the Green New Deal makes investments to ensure that we rebuild our economy in a way that rises to the urgency of the climate crisis while creating high-paying union jobs and a fairer, more just society. And, crucially, it does so in a way that uplifts all Americans and tears down the divisions that have contributed to racial and economic inequalities so that we can all share in this more prosperous future," said Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27)."In California and across the country, Americans are grappling with the deadly effects of climate change, including extreme weather events and water scarcity. It is past time we implement bold solutions that meet the scope and urgency of this crisis while also creating good-paying jobs," said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. I strongly support the Green New Deal to lay out a path to defeat this crisis for our constituents, the workforce, the world, and future generations.""In 2019 we made it our mission to pass a Green New Deal. Three years later, we are still facing the ticking time bomb of the climate crisis, but now alongside the highest levels of joblessness since the Great Depression," said Varshini Prakash, Executive Director of Sunrise Movement. "We are in a civilization altering moment in our history and it's time for America's political leaders to muster the courage and moral clarity to pass the Green New Deal, launching America's biggest job creation program in a century while combating climate change. At a crucial moment like this, politicians have a choice to make: they can heed the call demanded by science and justice to build back better through a Green New Deal, or they can cower to the fossil fuel industry and force us down a path of destruction, towards the fires that burned our homes to rubble and the floods that took our family and friends with them. Young people have made our choice clear – and now we demand politicians join us by passing a robust Civilian Climate Corps and ushering in the decade of the Green New Deal."

​

"Climate change is not only an environmental concern—it has economic and financial repercussions as well. This is why I was eager to support the Green New Deal as an original co-sponsor last Congress and am pleased to be co-sponsoring its reintroduction today," said Rep. Vargas. "The Green New Deal encourages further federal investments into renewable energy to fight climate change and create jobs, in a time when we need it most."

​

"Today we reaffirm our commitment to the relentless pursuit of environmental justice. Climate change is the existential crisis of our time, and in this critical moment, we must be bold and unapologetic in confronting it," said Rep. Pressley. "It's time to create millions of green jobs and set us on a path to a just and equitable recovery. The Green New Deal meets the moment and I'm proud to join my colleagues and our and partners in the movement for environmental justice to reintroduce this bill.""Climate change is the greatest threat to our planet's existence and our nation has a duty to invest boldly to protect the future of our planet,"said Congressman Pocan. "After decades of forever wars waged over oil costing trillions of dollars—it's time we reinvest in the needs of the American people and move towards a future reliant on renewable energy not planet-destroying fossil fuels. The Green New Deal is not only an investment to protect our planet, but a vehicle to bring millions of jobs and economic prosperity to our country. We cannot just ignore climate change out of existence, our planet depends on us taking real action to combat this crisis.""The climate crisis is an existential threat, and we must take bold, comprehensive action to save our planet for future generations," said Congresswoman Veronica Escobar (TX-16). "I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Green New Deal resolution to protect our environment, create millions of green jobs, and counteract systemic injustices in low-income communities and communities of color.""I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of the Green New Deal and to represent a generation that is taking on climate change with the urgency it deserves. Now is the time to take action — to protect our planet and our future and to build a more just and livable society for everyone," said Rep. Sara Jacobs."I signed onto the Green New Deal to ensure that our most affected workers—those who make traditional cars and trucks, pipefitters, boilermakers, coal miners—have a seat at the very center of the table as we make policy to transition to a green economy," said Congressman Andy Levin. "We have an incredible opportunity to create an industrial policy that makes sure new technologies that green the economy are made in the U.S. by union labor, from supply chains to finished products. This framework calls for the creation of millions of good, high-wage, unions jobs, encourages collective bargaining agreements and guarantees direct replacement of lost wages, health care, retirement and other benefits for workers affected by the transition. I will continue to work with colleagues to build out the policies of this framework and ensure prosperity and economic security for all Americans.""Climate change is real, it is an existential threat to our nation and planet, and it is happening at an alarming rate. The detrimental effects are already here, with longer dry spells causing droughts while violent storms flood areas and destroy infrastructure. These conditions create scores of climate refugees who must seek new homes," said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. "The United States has been responsible for more than a quarter of global carbon dioxide emissions since 1850, so we have a significant responsibility to help address global climate change. I'm proud to co-sponsor the Green New Deal resolution because our nation's action is past-due. Daily, we see extreme weather, devastating wildfires, and increased hurricanes and flooding. We must commit to action that will effect real change in sectors of transportation, power, and others that are crucial to combatting the climate crisis.""Since I first ran for mayor of my hometown in the early 90s, addressing the climate crisis has been an issue. Today, it's even worse with once in a hundred year storms every year, rising tides, and yearly forest fires," said Congressman Tom Suozzi. "Being bold and ambitious is the only way we will address this crisis. America needs a Green New Deal.""Climate change isn't something we can wait to address, we need to take serious measures to tackle this issue head on. This isn't a partisan issue, this is about facts and science. We all need to join together and take action that will help us sustain a healthy planet, while making sure that no communities are left behind. The goals outlined in the Green New Deal would do just that. That's why I'm proud to join Representative Ocasio-Cortez in introducing it today," said Rep. John B. Larson."Climate change isn't something we can wait to address, we need to take serious measures to tackle this issue head on. This isn't a partisan issue, this is about facts and science. We all need to join together and take action that will help us sustain a healthy planet, while making sure that no communities are left behind. The goals outlined in the Green New Deal would do just that. That's why I'm proud to join Representative Ocasio-Cortez in introducing it today," said Rep. John B. Larson."We must invest in policies that balance environmental sustainability with economic stability," said Congressman Kaialiʻi Kahele (HI-02). "With the Green New Deal, we can create millions of new jobs that have been lost to globalization and unlock the potential of a green economy for future generations. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bold national framework to address the global climate crisis, invest in a carbon neutral economy and commit Hawaiʻi to 100% renewable energy by 2045.""Addressing the climate crisis is imperative for the health of our communities and our planet," said Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici. "The Green New Deal is an ambitious plan that meets the moment and outlines a vision for climate action that will create good-paying jobs and begin to repair the legacy of environmental racism and pollution that has disproportionately burdened low-income communities and communities of color for decades.""The original introduction of the Green New Deal transformed the conversation on climate change," said Congresswoman Cori Bush (MO-01). "People have marched, organized, and voted to demand that we make our dreams of a Green New Deal into a reality. Together, our movement has worked to flesh out chapters that legislate in defense of Black lives, create thousands of jobs, and aspire towards the safe and just environments we want to live in.""When we say we're fighting for a Green New Deal, we're fighting for clean air and clean water for our kids. We're fighting for living wages and good-paying union jobs to transform our energy system. We're fighting to end racial injustice, revitalize our schools, and achieve safe and affordable housing for all. I'm so proud to be in this fight because it's not only about preventing the worst outcomes of the climate crisis. A Green New Deal is about rewriting the social contract and taking the revolutionary steps we need toward the bright future that all of our kids deserve," said Rep. Bowman."My district faces immense losses and exorbitant costs if we don't take immediate and dramatic action to address the climate crisis. Sea level rise alone is projected to cost San Mateo over $39 billion over the next 50 to 100 years, and the Bay Area is far from alone," Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-14) said. "As temperatures rise, so will incidents of extreme weather, rising sea levels, and an increase of airborne illnesses. Unless we act boldly now, climate change will continue to cost countless lives and billions of dollars, result in devastating losses of wildlife and species, generate climate-related migration, and destroy economies. That is why I support the Green New Deal. Congress must work together to meet critical emissions goals and invest in a sustainable future for the wellbeing and survival of current and future generations.""Today Democrats are launching a whole-of-government effort to combat the unprecedented threat of climate change. For our children and the generations that follow, it is essential that we enact this watershed plan into law," said Rep. Pascrell. "The Green New Deal acknowledges what is happening to our planet and offers a broad plan of action that will create union jobs. Ambitious national goals serve as a catalyst for mobilizing our skills and American ingenuity. Just as President Roosevelt's New Deal marshaled forward-thinking urgency for a better America, our Green New Deal embodies that same urgency and aspiration. Our refusal to do the absolute most that we can to reverse the impact of climate change would be a crime against our children today and posterity tomorrow. We must act now.""From the devastating wildfires in my home state of California to the snow storms in my birth place of Texas, there's no denying that the climate crisis is here, and the threat to the safety and economic security of our communities is growing by the day," said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. "In order to ensure a healthy and safe future for our children and grandchildren, the federal government must invest in bold policies that address the climate emergency head on, especially in communities of color and low-income communities. Our solutions must match the scale of the crisis—that's why I'm proud to support the Green New Deal."

​

####==
Title: Sen. Schumer, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Announce Critical New Details On FEMA Funeral Assistance Program
Date: March 24, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Maximum Financial Assistance Will Now Be $9,000 Per Funeral

Schumer, Ocasio-Cortez: Now Is The Time For Applicants To Gather Relevant Documentation

Application Expected To Open In Early April

WASHINGTON, D.C.- The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shared additional information about the funeral assistance program with the offices of Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Most notably, FEMA shared that the maximum financial assistance will now be $9,000 per funeral.

Additionally, FEMA will only award COVID-19 Funeral Assistance for a deceased individual on a single application. If multiple individuals contributed toward funeral expenses, they should register under a single application as applicant and co-applicant. The applicant or co-applicant must have incurred the funeral expenses. The deceased individual's documentation status is not considered as part of the reimbursement process, but the applicant(s) must be U.S. citizens, legal residents, asylees, refugees, or non-citizen nationals.

Now is the time for families to decide who the applicant and any co-applicants will be and to gather the documents they need to be reimbursed for expenses.

Specifically, the applicant must provide the following documents:

1) a copy of the death certificate. The death certificate must indicate the death "may have been caused by" or "was likely a result of" COVID-19 or COVID-19-like symptoms. Similar phrases that indicate a high likelihood of COVID-19 are also considered sufficient.

2) proof of funeral expenses incurred. Documentation (receipts, funeral home contract, etc.) must include the applicant's name as the responsible person for the expense, the deceased individual's name, the amount of funeral expenses, and that funeral expenses were incurred after January 20, 2020. ​

Eligible funeral expenses include but are not limited to:

Transportation for up to two individuals to identify the deceased individual

Transfer of remains

Casket or urn

Burial plot or cremation niche

Marker or headstone

Clergy or officiant services

Arrangement of the funeral ceremony

Use of funeral home equipment or staff

Cremation or interment costs

Costs associated with producing and certifying multiple death certificates

Additional expenses mandated by any applicable local or state government laws or ordinances.

If applicants already received reimbursement for certain funeral expenses through government agencies, voluntary agencies, non-profits, burial or funeral insurance, they cannot resubmit those same expenses for reimbursement through this FEMA-administered program. If you received any outside assistance, you must include documentation of this assistance in your application. If you received financial assistance through the deceased's life insurance policy, you may still apply for reimbursement.

Senator Schumer and Representative Ocasio-Cortez have worked closely with FEMA to develop the funeral assistance program, after establishing and extending it through the December and March COVID-19 relief packages."Too many families and friends across New York have paid the ultimate price with the tragic loss of their loved ones to the coronavirus. The economic upheaval and added financial strain of this pandemic makes the added cost of funerals and burials unbearable for so many who have already lost so much. This historic use of FEMA's funeral assistance program is much needed aid to those who need it most, and that is why Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and I worked so hard to deliver this with FEMA—and we got it done. Now that the details are finalized, we are working to get the word out, to make sure eligible families know the application will open next month, how to prepare, and that help will be available through a dedicated 800 number, that will be announced soon," said U.S. Senator Charles Schumer in a statement."This effort began over a year ago when community leaders in NY-14 flagged the disparate impact of COVID-19 in working-class areas, compounded with the devastating economic impact of funeral expenses. I'm so relieved that soon our families will finally be able to access relief, and I'm grateful to FEMA for working with us to make this program inclusive, generous and easily accessible," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement."At FEMA, our mission is to help people before, during, and after disasters," Acting FEMA Administrator Robert Fenton said. "The COVID-19 pandemic has brought overwhelming grief to many. We cannot change the outcome of what has happened, but we are dedicated to helping families with the substantial cost of funerals and burials that so many weren't expecting."

At this time, a deadline to apply for COVID-19 Funeral Assistance has not been established and we expect the application period to open in early April. Additional information on the Program can be found here,COVID-19 Funeral Assistance | FEMA.gov, and will be updated as more details become available.Media can direct their questions to aoc.press@mail.house.gov (Ocasio-Cortez),Paige_Tepke@schumer.senate.gov(Schumer) andMichael.Hart@fema.dhs.gov(FEMA)==
Title: Menendez, Velázquez, Ocasio-Cortez Introduce Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2021
Date: March 18, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.–Today, U.S. Senator Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), the highest-ranking Latino in Congress, alongside U.S. Representatives Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), introduced thePuerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2021, bicameral and bipartisan legislation that would empower Puerto Ricans with an inclusive and democratic process to determine their own political future and relationship with the United States. Under this proposed legislation, a status convention would be created and delegates would be elected to discuss options with federal officials, and therefore create an official, legitimate and comprehensive bilateral conversation on status."The more than three million residents of Puerto Rico deserve a comprehensive and fair process to chart their own path forward,"said Sen. Menendez."That's why I am proud to be introducing this bicameral and bipartisan legislation alongside my House colleagues,Chairwoman Nydia Velázquez and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. This is the most inclusive approach to addressing the long-overdue question of Puerto Rico's political status, but most importantly, it offers the people of Puerto Rico a legitimate and democratic process to determine their own future."​

The idea of an assembly to determine Puerto Rico's status has been around for more than a century, and has been used in several federal legislative proposals. Rep. Velázquez first introduced the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act in the U.S. House of Representatives back in 2007, and it​was most recently reintroduced last year in the House by both her and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez."Over a century ago, the United States invaded Puerto Rico. And ever since the U.S. has pursued its own colonial rule,"said Rep. Velázquez."While many may disagree about the future of Puerto Rico's status, we must recognize that the decision should come from those who will be impacted most: the people of Puerto Rico. That is why we are introducing the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act. After over one hundred years of colonial rule, Puerto Ricans would finally have a democratic mechanism to determine their own future. I would like to thank the hundreds of advocacy groups for making this bill possible as well as my House co-lead Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and the leader of the Senate version, Senator Bob Menendez."​

"The principled position — especially for the head of that colonizing power — is to say that people should have a process of self-determination and to not put your thumb on the scale of one direction or another. Our bill outlines a just, democratic, and inclusive process for Puerto Ricans to decide their future,"said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez.​

In the Senate, thePuerto Rico Self-Determination Actis cosponsored by Sens. Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), and Ed Markey (D-Mass.)."For too long, the people of Puerto Rico have faced inadequate assistance and colonial exploitation in the wake of natural disasters, crippling economic crises, and unjust human suffering,"said Sen. Sanders."The people of Puerto Rico deserve the right to decide their own future. They deserve the right to have their voices be equally heard in governance and elections. I am proud to join my colleagues on this bill that returns the self-determination of that future back to the people of Puerto Rico.""The people of Puerto Rico have a right to determine their future status in a fair and democratic process,"said Sen. Wicker."The Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act would provide a comprehensive mechanism for Puerto Rico's democratically-elected representatives to consider all options for the political future of the island and negotiate a permanent outcome that reflects the will of the people."​

"Puerto Ricans are American citizens, and they deserve the right to determine their own political future and relationship with the United States – period,"said Sen. Brown.​

"It's up to the people of Puerto Rico to decide what is best for the future of the island they call home, and that's why I'm proud to co-sponsor the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act of 2021,"said Sen. Gillibrand."This legislation provides an inclusive and democratic path forward that centers the voices and concerns of those most impacted by Puerto Rico's political status.""Puerto Rico's path forward should be set by the people of Puerto Rico,"said Sen. Markey."It's past has been marred by devastating natural disasters, economic crises, and inadequate support from the federal government. But it's governance and political future should be one of self-determination, fueled by the voices, needs, and perspectives of its residents. I am proud to co-sponsor this legislation that rightfully partners Puerto Rico's people with its future."​

You can find bill textHERE. Below is a summary of thePuerto Rico Self-Determination Act.​

In the House, the bill is also cosponsored by Reps. Adriano Espaillat (D-N.Y.), Al Green (D-Texas), Albio Sires (D-N.J.), Alma Adams (D-N.C.), Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Andy Levin (D-Mich.), Anthony Brown (D-Md.), Ayanna Pressley (D-Mass.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Bobby Scott (D-Va.), G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.), Jesús "Chuy" García (D-Ill.), Cori Bush (D-Mo.), Danny Davis (D-Ill.), David Scott (D-Ga.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.), Dwight Evans (D-Penn.), Gerry Connolly (D-Va.), Grace Meng (D-N.Y.), Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.), Jahana Hayes (D-Conn.), Jamaal Bowman (D-N.Y.), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Kweisi Mfume (D-Md.), Lisa Blunt Rochester, (D-Del.), Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas), Marc Veasey (D-Texas), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Mary Gay Scanlon (D-Penn.), Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Mondaire Jones (D-N.Y.), Norma Torres (D-Calif.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), Raul Ruiz (D-Calif.), Richard Neal (D-Mass), Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), Robin Kelly (D-Ill.), Michael San Nicolas (D-Guam), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-N.Y.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Susan Wild (D-Penn.), Sylvia Garcia (D-Texas), Terri Sewell (D-Ala.), Tom Suozzi (D-N.Y.), Veronica Escobar (D-Texas), Yvette Clarke (D-N.Y.), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Juan Vargas (D-Calif.), Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.), Andre Carson (D-Ind.), Mike Quigley (D-Ill.), Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), Teresa Leger Fernandez (D-N.M.), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Calif.), Dina Titus (D-Nev.), Brian Higgins (D-N.Y.), Lou Correa (D-Calif.), Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Bobby Rush (D-Ill.), Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio), Joaquín Castro (D-Texas).==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, 8 NYC Members Express Concerns about the Astoria NRG Plant
Date: March 9, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY -Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) and eight other members of the New York City delegation sent a letter to Governor Cuomo and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, expressing concerns about NRG Energy's Astoria Replacement Project. NRG is currently seeking to update the 50-year-old turbine at their Astoria-area power plant with new natural gas-fired power."Moving forward with the implementation of new natural gas-fired power creates nuisances and real health hazards, which the community has vocally opposed. Frontline and diverse communities, like the ones we represent, stand to be disproportionately exposed. A gas-fired power plant would further degrade air quality in neighborhoods already ridden with toxic fossil fuel power plants and elevated levels of asthma," reads the letter.

Rep. Ocasio-Cortez sent the letter after hearing from constituents with concerns about the project, including the ‘No Astoria NRG Plant Coalition.'"New York must move off dirty fossil fuels," said No Astoria NRG Plant Coalition Organizer, Laura Shindell. "Since passing a fracking ban in 2015, energy companies have twisted themselves into knots trying to expand fracked gas infrastructure in our state despite the ban. We're proud to stand with legislators in calling for the end to fracked gas plants and their dangerous expansion aims."

The full letter is available below.

The Honorable Andrew M. Cuomo,Governor of New York StateNew York State Capitol Building Albany, NY 12224

Re: Astoria Power Plant

Dear Governor Cuomo and the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation,

We are writing regarding NRG Energy's (NRG) Astoria Replacement Project (Project) in New York City. NRG is seeking to update the 50-year-old turbine with a new natural gas-fired power plant.

Unfortunately, this replacement project still maintains our reliance on fossil fuel power generation and undermines the progress towards a more sustainable future. The environmental and health hazards that local, frontline communities have outlined are cause for serious consideration.

As you are aware, the aim of the Project is to replace 50-year-old turbines with new natural gas-fired power. Unfortunately, gas-powered energy and the process of extraction is not clean energy as some have touted. In fact, extracting fracked gas releases methane, a greenhouse gas that traps more than 86 times the heat of carbon dioxide in the short-term. Moreover, the entire process is prone to a high degree of leakage, undermining any potential gains that may be touted. Even if every coal plant were replaced by fracked gas electricity by 2030, emissions would remain on track to grow through 2050 due in part to pervasive methane leaks that make fracked gas as dangerous as coal.

Moving forward with the implementation of new natural gas-fired power creates nuisances and real health hazards, which the community has vocally opposed. Frontline and diverse communities, like the ones we represent, stand to be disproportionately exposed. A gas-fired power plant would further degrade air quality in neighborhoods already ridden with toxic fossil fuel power plants and elevated levels of asthma.

As you know, in 2020, New York City was one of the hardest hit areas in the country by the COVID-19 pandemic. Those suffering from respiratory illnesses were some of the most susceptible to COVID-19. We already know that burning fracked gas and other fossil fuels causes poor health outcomes for those living near plants. But COVID-19 exacerbated these geographic health disparities in frontline and communities of color. Studies show a higher rate of COVID-19 severity and mortality in communities like ours that have suffered from historically high particulate matter. At a time when our focus should be on increasing public health outcomes, the addition of a new fossil fuel burning plant does the exact opposite.

The climate crisis represents a national emergency to the future stability, prosperity, and general welfare of the United States and a growing body of scientific research has demonstrated that leakage, venting, and flaring of methane and other greenhouse gases in the course of oil and gas production and transmission significantly contributes to increased climate change. Further, any expansion of fossil fuel infrastructure is incompatible with our climate goals, at the City, State, and Federal level. Simply put, natural gas is not a bridge fuel. Instead, we believe all levels of government must make meaningful efforts to transition to green infrastructure, which has a history of creating well-paid jobs.

Thank you for your close consideration of this letter.

Sincerely,Alexandria Ocasio-CortezNydia VelázquezJamaal BowmanMondaire JonesGrace MengJerrold NadlerCarolyn B. MaloneyYvette D. ClarkeAdriano Espaillat

###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Schumer and Velázquez Call on FEMA to Ensure $10B Upgrade to Puerto Rico’s Electric Grid is Sustainable
Date: February 25, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14), Nydia Velázquez and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer led a group of 14 House and Senate Members in calling on FEMA to use its planned $9.6 billion investment in Puerto Rico's electrical grid to help transition the island to renewable energy. This formal request comes as Texans are facing the devastating consequences of their state's failure to invest in renewable energy and prepare their infrastructure for climate change."Puerto Rico is stuck in a vicious cycle. After every climate disaster, billions are spent repairing the vulnerable, centralized electric grid that is heavily dependent on fossil fuels. Rather than address the root of the problem, we ensure it will happen again," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez in a statement. "In Puerto Rico, we now have a chance to do something different. We can address both the Island's economic devastation and vulnerability to climate change by investing in a modern, reliable, sustainable energy grid that will create thousands of good-paying jobs. We must seize this opportunity and break the vicious, failed cycle of federal disaster response."

In their letter to the Biden administration, the House and Senate Members specifically noted that Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA) planned to use $853 million in FEMA funds for the construction of new natural gas generation infrastructure in addition to the funds that would be used to perpetuate the existing vulnerable centralized transmission and distribution system. The members asked FEMA to encourage PREPA to use this relief to transition to distributed renewable energy systems, instead."Now that we have finally overcome years of Trump's shamefully withholding vital aid we delivered to rebuild Puerto Rico, it is essential that PREPA use this enormous $9.6 billion dollar grant to build a resilient, decentralized and environmentally-friendly energy grid that is not completely dependent on dirty and expensive fossil fuels. It is essential that PREPA modernizes so that it's no longer dependent on carbon fuel, is more resilient to future storms, investments in microgrids and uses clean, reliable, renewable energy generated on the island. FEMA should support a sustainable energy plan for the electric grid that responds to the calls from Puerto Rico's residents for exactly that and help end the cycle of disaster damage."

The full letter is availablehere.==
Title: AOC, Bowman & 52 Congress Members Call on HUD, Treasury to Reform Emergency Rental Assistance
Date: January 28, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
With millions on the brink of eviction, Trump-era guidance is delaying critical aid to ERA applicants by requiring overly-burdensome documentation.

WASHINGTON - Thursday morning, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) and Jamaal Bowman (NY-16) led 52 of their House colleagues in sending a letter to the Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), asking their Secretaries to immediately repeal Trump-era guidance on the Emergency Rental Assistance (ERA) Program. The 'January 19, 2021 FAQ' issued by the Trump administration places burdensome documentation requirements on working-class families - increasing processing times, delaying eligible households access to resources, and preventing states and municipalities from mobilizing desperately needed aid. Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Bowman request in their letter that these documentation requirements be replaced with the use of self-certification systems to expedite the receipt of funds."It is estimated that one in five renters are behind on rent with some experts placing back owed rent as high as $70 billion dollars. This housing crisis is disproportionately impacting renters of color, who face higher unemployment rates and have had more difficulty making rent during this pandemic," reads the letter. "...when deploying emergency rental assistance, some states have required eviction notices, past due utility bills and in some cases, have gone as far as requiring households prove future financial stability in order to receive aid. The existing guidance promulgated by the former administration not only builds on the aforementioned requirements but would make it so that tenants would have to produce an additional burdensome amount of documentation and wait a lengthy period of 21 days in order to receive aid in the event their landlord is uncooperative."

The letter also calls for setting aside the majority of ERA funds for extremely low-income households and for enacting additional renter protections. Specifically, Reps. Ocasio-Cortez and Bowman called for guidance that would prevent landlords from being able to evict tenants without first attempting to obtain rental assistance.

The letters' requests were endorsed by the National Low Income Housing Coalition. The following Members of Congress also co-signed the letter: Alma S. Adams, Ph.D., Joyce Beatty, Sanford D. Bishop, Cori Bush, André Carson, David N. Cicilline, Gerald E. Connolly, Jamaal Bowman, Nanette Diaz Barragan, Donald S. Beyer Jr., Earl Blumenauer, Tony Cárdenas, Judy Chu, Yvette D. Clarke, Jim Cooper, J. Luis Correa, Diana DeGette, Mark DeSaulnier, Dwight Evans, Raul Grijalva, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr., Ann Kirkpatrick, Alan Lowenthal, James P. McGovern, Jerrold Nadler, Danny K. Davis, Rosa L. DeLauro, Adriano Espaillat, Jesús G. "Chuy" García, Alcee L. Hastings, Pramila Jayapal, Mondaire Jones, Barbara Lee, Carolyn B. Maloney, Grace Meng, Grace F. Napolitano, Joe Neguse, Marie Newman, Frank Pallone, Jr., Ayanna Pressley, Tim Ryan, Brad Sherman, Ritchie Torres, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Nikema Williams, Ilhan Omar, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Lucille Roybal-Allard, Mary Gay Scanlon, Rashida Tlaib, Nydia M. Velázquez, and Peter Welch.

The letter follows.

Image

ImageImage

==
Title: Reps. Crow, Ocasio-Cortez, Hill, and Mace Request Additional Resources to Help Capitol Community Cope with January 6th Attacks
Date: January 26, 2021
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY), Jason Crow (D-CO), French Hill (RAR), and Nancy Mace (R-SC) led a bipartisan effort today to request additional support and resources to help the broader Capitol community cope in the aftermath of the January 6th attacks. In a letter to the Office of Employee Assistance (OEA), the lawmakers noted the emotional and physical trauma experienced by those that worked in the Capitol complex on January 6th and the importance of addressing their emotional needs going forward."As you know, the U.S. Capitol is both a symbol of U.S. democracy and a workplace for Members of Congress, their staff, support staff, and U.S. Capitol Police. Like any community after a traumatic attack, the U.S. Capitol community is processing these events and the associated trauma. As we work towards accountability and governing after the attack, Congress must ensure that support services and resources are available to and appropriate for all who work in the Capitol to help promote healing,"the lawmakers wrote the OEA in the letter.

Among other requests, the lawmakers asked the OEA to provide these resources to non-Congressional employees who may be affected, including food service contractors, military liaisons, press, and other contractors.

Full text of the letter follows.

Dear Chief Administrative Officer Szpindor:

We write to request that you provide additional support and resources to the Office of Employee Assistance to help the broader Capitol community cope with the January 6 attack.

As you know, the U.S. Capitol is both a symbol of U.S. democracy and a workplace for Members of Congress, their staff, support staff, and U.S. Capitol Police. Like any community after a traumatic attack, the U.S. Capitol community is processing these events and the associated trauma. As we work towards accountability and governing after the attack, Congress must ensure that support services and resources are available to and appropriate for all who work in the Capitol to help promote healing.

The House of Representatives, through the Office of Employee Assistance (OEA), assists Members, U.S. Capitol Police, employees, and their family members for personal and work-related problems, including emotional and behavioral support services. It is our understanding that the OEA has rapidly scaled their services and are working around the clock to ensure that staff understands the resources available to them. Nonetheless, needs are increasing and we should expand these services to include all Capitol personnel who may be affected. This would warrant further investment in the services and resources these offices provide.

In the aftermath of this attack, there were harrowing reports of what Members, staff, and law enforcement experienced on that day. Members in the House and Senate chambers heard gunfire and feared for their safety. U.S. Capitol Police officers were physically assaulted and endured verbal abuse, and we sadly lost two U.S. Capitol Police officers, Officers Brian Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, in the days after the attack. Capitol staff barricaded their offices with furniture, and journalists were assaulted while covering the events. Rioters brandished Confederate flags, clothing with anti-Semitic messages, and other hateful symbols in the halls of the Capitol building, erected gallows on the Capitol campus, and carried zip ties and firearms. Pipe bombs and other deadly weapons were also discovered in the vicinity of the Capitol. Custodial and support staff endured this attack and still had to complete their work, cleaning and repairing the damage just hours later. Feeling anxiety, fear, anger, numbness, and other emotions are common after an event like this. We are grateful for the work you have done up to this point to provide support and resources to Congressional staff, support staff, and U.S. Capitol Police. Much more can be done, however, to ensure that personnel feel safe and have their emotional needs addressed.

As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to ensure resources are in place to help our community heal. To that end, we ask you to continue providing critical services and resources to the extent possible. Additionally, we strongly urge you to work with us, the House Administration Committee, and House Appropriations Committee to expand the services and resources you provide. This should include ensuring the following:

We appreciate your time and consideration and look forward to working with you on these issues.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Recognizes Congressional App Challenge Winner, Runner-Up
Date: December 23, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Every year, students from across the country participate in the Congressional App Challenge by creating a software application, or "app", for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Each Congressional office that participates in the Challenge selects a winner from their district. The students are then traditionally recognized at a reception in D.C. - which this year will be held virtually due to COVID-19.###==
Title: ICYMI: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Holds December Town Hall for NY-14 Constituents
Date: December 18, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
Queens, NY - On Thursday evening, Representative Alexandria OcasioCortez held her monthly town hall for the constituents of New York's 14th Congressional District. The Congresswoman used the bulk of the virtual event to provide an update on negotiations around a COVID-19 relief bill."Folks in our community are on the brink of eviction. We have just an insane amount of food instability in our community. And, it just feels like the Republican Party in the Senate just doesn't care," said Rep. OcasioCortez at the town hall. "What we were able to do is that at the beginning of the week there were no stimulus payments at all - there was zero dollars. And now, we've clawed our way to $600. I think $600 is even still an insulting low amount, and we're going to have to figure things out from there. What the name of the game is right now is survival until January 20th [the presidential inauguration] and reassessing our situation from there."

The Congresswoman also took questions from constituents on the MTA funding crisis, economic relief for catering halls, Spanish-language outreach around the COVID-19 vaccine, oversight of the PPP program, Page 2 of 3 student debt forgiveness, and the Green New Deal. Additionally, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez answered questions from local and national media on the Georgia Senate races, her plans for her district in 2021, and whether or not she would vote for a COVID-19 relief bill that included just a $600 stimulus check.

In her final town hall of her first term, the Congresswoman also reviewed some of the progress she made over the last two years. To date, she has introduced 23 pieces of legislation and saw two amendments pass into law - shifting $5 million from the failed war on drugs to treatment for opioid addiction, and securing $10 million to clean up toxic bombardment sites in Vieques, Puerto Rico. In the House, the Congresswoman led a successful vote to repeal the Faircloth Amendment, which is critical to the expansion of affordable housing and to the execution of the Green New Deal. The Congresswoman also introduced The Loan Shark Prevention Act, to cap credit card interest rates at 15%, and The Green New Deal for Public Housing, which would invest up to $180 billion over ten years to create a quarter million jobs per year nationwide. Additionally, she introduced the COVID-19 Funeral Assistance Act, which would help families cover funeral expenses, and called for a bailout of taxi cab rivers. The Congresswoman also introduced the Just Society suite of bills, which collectively would raise the federal poverty line, include immigrants in social safety net programs, require federal contractors to pay a living wage, strengthen renters' rights, and decrease recidivism. Overall, the Congresswoman had more amendments made in order than 90 percent of the freshmen class.

In committee hearings, the Congresswoman earned a reputation as a fierce, prepared questioner whose lines of inquiry delivered real results. She pressured a major pharmaceutical company into lowering the price of a drug that reduces HIV transmission, and worked with her colleagues to force a defense contractor to return $16.1 million in federal funding. The Congresswoman also got Michael Cohen to state on the record that President Donald Trump was engaging in tax fraud and to divulge other information that helped the New York Attorney General open an investigation into the Trump Organization. The Congresswoman's questioning also helped overturn the unjust citizenship question on the Census.

In the district, over the last two years, Representative Ocasio-Cortez hosted 25 town halls, all of which provided language translation services and Page 3 of 3 accessibility for the hearing impaired. The District Office also opened cases for over 1,400 constituents, assisting with everything from immigration visas and Social Security payments to small business loans and veterans benefits. Additionally, staff answered over 19,000 calls and provided 2,800 written responses to constituents. Various institutions in NY-14 also received $470 million in federal grant money during the Congresswoman's first term.

The full video of the virtual town hall can be viewed here.###==
Title: UPDATED TIME: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Hosts Monthly Town Hall
Date: December 15, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY - Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez will host her monthly town hall for NY-14 constituents on Thursday, December 17.The event will now begin at7:30 PM ET due to changes in the vote schedule in D.C. During the town hall, the Congresswoman will give an update on negotiations around a COVID-19 relief package and review accomplishments from her first term. Additionally, she will take questions from constituents.

The Congresswoman will also take questions from members of the media at the conclusion of the event.Reporters must RSVP hereto ask a question.

WHAT: Representative Ocasio-Cortez will hold her monthly town hall meeting for NY-14 constituents.

WHEN: Thursday, December 17 at7:30PM ET. Press gaggle to start at approximately8:45PM ET.

WHERE: This is a virtual event. You mustsign up hereto receive log-in information.==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Asks City to Detail COVID-19 Safety Measures at Rikers Island
Date: December 14, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY- In a recent letter, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY14) asked the City to detail the safety measures they are taking at Rikers Island Correctional Facility, as New York faces another COVID-19 surge. The Congresswoman's office recently received calls from people detained at Rikers, detailing inadequate access to soap, facilities operating at high capacity, scarce healthcare resources, and poor air ventilation."The City has made valiant efforts to protect New Yorkers from COVID-19, particularly given they've received little help from the Trump administration. However, these disturbing calls necessitate further transparency," said Rep. OcasioCortez in a statement. "Many at Rikers stand only accused, not convicted, of a crime. And none of the detained individuals were sentenced to death by a deadly virus. The City has a responsibility to provide for the health and safety of everyone at Rikers."

Rikers Island is part of the Congresswoman's congressional district, New York's 14th. The text of the letter follows.**LETTER TEXT**

Dana Wax DeputyChief of StaffNew York CityDepartment of Correction75-20 Astoria Blvd.East Elmhurst, NY 11370

Dear Ms. Wax,

I am writing regarding conditions at the correctional facilities located on Rikers Island, in my district. Earlier this year, at the onset of the pandemic, my office wrote to your agency with questions regarding pandemic preparedness to ensure the health and safety of detained individuals on the Island. In response, you informed us that "signs have been conspicuously posted," "patients [are pre-screened] at prearraignment and upon admission", and that Correctional Health Services has "adequate supplies of personal protective equipment".

However, in the months that passed, we learned of several additional protective measures that must be in place to prevent an outbreak. These measures include wearing face coverings, washing hands with soap and water for 20 seconds, and avoiding close contact. Further, the EPA "recommends increasing ventilation with outdoor air and air filtration" in order to reduce the "potential for airborne transmission of COVID-19". I am now writing to ascertain whether the Department of Corrections is adhering to this guidance.

This inquiry comes after my office became privy to disturbing allegations of insufficient mitigation efforts and negligent management of the facilities. The messages we received recount inadequate access to soap, facilities that are operating at 96% capacity, scarce healthcare resources, poor air ventilation, and leaking roofs. I seek responses to the following concerns:

Finally, as cases rise throughout New York, please inform as to Testing and Tracing protocols on Rikers Island:

Please direct your response to my Deputy District Director, Naureen Akhter, via email at naureen.akhter@mail.house.gov. I look forward to hearing from you no later than November 24, 2020.

Best regards,Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez

CC: New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene

###
==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Urges Mnuchin to Release $175B+ in Relief Loans that Congress Approved
Date: December 2, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, in a Financial Services Committee hearing, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez urged Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to prevent a portion of the over $450 billion in federal relief loans that Congress already authorized as part of the CARES Act from returning to the Treasury. The period to distribute these loans currently sunsets on December 31, and the Trump administration is proposing to return hundreds of billions of dollars to the Treasury rather than distributing it to small businesses and state governments in severe financial distress due to COVID-19. The full video of her questioning is availablehere.

The CARES Act allowed the Treasury to establish a $500 billion emergency lending program for certain industries and to state governments. Of the $500 billion, the Treasury can make at least $454 billion available to support Federal Reserve lending facilities, which make loans to small businesses and states in distress. This provision sunsets on December 31, 2020, at which time any money not provided to Federal Reserve lending facilities must be returned to the Treasury. As of November 19, Secretary Mnuchin indicated to Congress that he expected to return $175 billion in relief loans to the Treasury, even as unemployment remains high and COVID-19 surges. Today's hearing was conducted in adherence with the CARES Act, which requires Secretary Mnuchin and Chairman Powell to come before the Financial Services Committee quarterly.

Click Here to view this email in your browserClick Here to be removed from this list

==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Honors the Centennial of the Jewish Center of Jackson Heights in a Floor Speech
Date: November 23, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY- Late Friday, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) honored the centennial of the Jewish Center of Jackson Heights with a speech on the House Floor.The video of her remarks can be viewed here. The Center was founded as the Queens Independent Society in 1920 when a few Jewish families looked for a safe place to congregate. The Center was first called the Queens Independent Society because the term Jewish was not permitted at that time. The original building itself was based in Woodside, an adjacent neighborhood to Jackson Heights because Jews were not welcome in Jackson Heights. However, in 1928, the Center was able to rename itself the Jewish Center of Jackson Heights and in the 1950s they officially moved their brick and mortar into Jackson Heights. Today the Center is known in the community as an inclusive and accepting space, hosting a number of diverse community events throughout the year as well as housing the Queens Center for Gay Seniors.

==
Title: Advisory: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Hosts Monthly Town Hall
Date: November 10, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
The Bronx, NY -Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) will host her monthly town hall for NY-14 constituents on Thursday, November 12, at 6:30PM. She will give an update about her legislative and community work and take questions from the audience.

There will be a press gaggle at the event. Media must RSVPhereto participate.

WHAT: Representative Ocasio-Cortez will hold her monthly town hall meeting for NY-14 constituents.WHEN: Thursday, November 12 at 6:30PM ET. Gaggle to start at approximately 7:45PM ET.WHERE: This is a virtual event. You must sign uphereto receive log-in information.==
Title: Tlaib, Ocasio-Cortez Introduce Legislation Enabling Creation of Public Banks
Date: October 30, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.-Today, Congresswomen Rashida Tlaib (MI-13) and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) introduced the historic Public Banking Act, which allows for the creation of state and locally administered public banks by establishing the Public Bank Grant program administered by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board which would provide grants for the formation, chartering and capitalization of public banks. It also codifies that public banks may be members of the Federal Reserve. Public banks can offer lower debt costs to city and state governments, fund public infrastructure projects, and encourage entrepreneurship by providing loans to small businesses at lower interest rates and with lower fees. The legislation also creates a pathway for state-chartered banks to gain federal recognition and recognizes a framework for public banks to interact with Fed Accounts, postal banking, and Digital Dollar platforms. As such, the passage of The Public Banking Act would provide a much-needed financial lifeline to states and municipalities, as well as unbanked and underbanked residents, that have been left in dire straits by the COVID-19 pandemic.The Public Banking Act is the latest effort of Congresswomen Tlaib and Ocasio-Cortez to secure the aid state and local governments need—they previouslywroteto the Federal Reserve urging it to do more to support state and local governments, adding to criticism that the central bank is being too cautious in some of the programs it set up to help the economy during the pandemic. With a current financial system that has forcedbillionsfrom accessing the most basic financial tools and cash-strapped cities and states staring downplunging tax revenue and climbing pandemic-related costs, the Congresswomen believe it's time to finally enact banking as a public utility, a proven model worldwide, to keep money local and cut costs by eliminating Wall Street middlemen, shareholders and high-paid executives.

The legislation also:"From overdraft fees to charging for having a checking account period, Wall Street-run banks put key financial services out of reach for many of my residents who are struggling to make ends meet,"Congresswoman Tlaib said. "It's long past time to open doors for people who have been systematically shut out and provide a better option for those grappling with the costs of simply trying to participate in an economy they have every right to—but has been rigged against them. The COVID-19 pandemic has also plunged city and state governments into a financial crisis unlike any other they've ever experienced—and public banks could offer a much more tenable option for dealing with their debts at a time when they need it most. It's for all of this that I'm proud to partner with Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez to finally provide this crucial financial lifeline to our states, municipalities, and folks who are unbanked and underbanked.""I am proud to partner with Rep. Tlaib on this monumental bill. Public banks are uniquely able to address the economic inequality and structural racism exacerbated by the banking industry's discriminatory policies and predatory practices,"Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez said."The creation of public banks will also facilitate the use of public resources to construct a myriad of public goods including affordable housing and local renewable energy projects. Public banks empower states and municipalities to establish new channels of public investment to help solve systemic crises."

In the short term, public banks would be a seamless and effective way to deliver relief funds to all eligible recipients. In the longer term, public banks would remedy long-standing systemic problems with our banking system that have disproportionately burdened low-income communities, ultimately bringing about transformational change to the American monetary-financial system. That's, in part, why The Public Banking Act has garnered the support of nine of the Congresswomen's colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives: Reps. Jesús G. "Chuy" García (IL-04), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Ayanna Pressley (MA-7), Ilhan Omar (MN-05), Al Green (TX-9), Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Jan Schakowsky (IL-9). 29 organizations that have long advocated for the public banking system it would make possible, including the California Public Banking Alliance (CBPA), Take on Wall Street, Americans for Financial Reform, Beneficial State Foundation, Communications Workers of America,​Friends of the Earth, Food & Water Action,​Americans for Financial Reform,​California Reinvestment Coalition, Center for Popular Democracy, Community Change, Farm Aid, Institute for Policy Studies, Jobs With Justice, NJ Citizen Action, Oil Change International, Oil Change International, People's Action, Strong Economy for All, UNITE HERE, Working Families Party, Democracy Collaborative, ACRE, and​Public Citizen, also support the landmark legislation."The public needs an alternative to Wall Street. By providing federal recognition and a regulatory framework for public banks, this bill gives cities and states a proven model that will facilitate investment in an equitable recovery and a sustainable economy,"CBPA Legislative Team Organizer David Jette said."We cannot face the crises of our day with the financial infrastructure that led us to those same crises. We need accountable, publicly chartered banks that invest in the well being of the many, not the few. This bill gets us there, and not a moment too soon.""As we learned recently from the Paycheck Protection Program, when you pay big Wall Street banks to provide public goods, they inevitably reward themselves and their friends at the expense of white, Black, and brown working families,"Take on Wall Street Campaign Director Porter McConnell said."Take on Wall Street supports the Public Banking Act because public banks can create jobs and boost the local economy, save cities and states money, and lend counter-cyclically to blunt the impact of Wall Street booms and busts. We deserve a financial system for working families, not the big banks, and this bill moves us closer to that reality.""We are excited to see the introduction of the Public Banking Act that scales out the leadership of our members Asian Pacific Environmental Network and People Organizing Demand Environmental and Economic Rights (PODER) demonstrated in the passage of public banking in California,"Climate Justice AlliancePolicy CoordinatorAnthony Rogers-Wright said. "We are very excited to see our values regarding the need for a rapid Fossil Fuel phaseout represented in this bill. More evidence is pointing to the fact that, economically, Big Oil is in big trouble and the people don't want the money they keep in their banks utilized to bailout or finance an industry that's killing people and planet. Representatives Ocasio-Cortez and Tlaib have the gratitude of frontline communities nationwide.""The federal government, which issues the U.S. dollar, is uniquely responsible for the health and character of the American financial system,"said Willamette University Assistant Professor of Law Rohan Grey said. "Rep. Tlaib and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez's bill critically combines Congressional leadership and vision with strong and genuine support for grassroots economic democracy.""As a strong supporter of financial innovation in the public interest, I applaud the offices of Rep. Tlaib and Rep. Ocasio-Cortez on the introduction of the Public Banking Act," Public Money Action, Ltd Director and Yale Law School Associate Research Scholar Raúl Carrillo, Esq. said. "By facilitating the steady development of public options for 21st century financial services at the federal, state, and local levels, they are not only helping communities divest and invest public money as they see fit, but creating higher standards for equitable financial inclusion across the board."

The full text of the Public Banking Act can be readhere.==
Title: Meng and Ocasio-Cortez Work to Help Local Food Assistance Organizations Experiencing Sudden Impacts In Funding
Date: September 27, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY– U.S. Reps. Grace Meng (D-NY) and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) announced today that they are working to assist Queens food assistance organizations that are experiencing sudden impacts in their funding.

The organizations include La Jornada which for 12 years has worked to distribute food to borough residents. Meng and Ocasio-Cortez were informed that federal grant funding it receives from the Coronavirus Food Assistance Program's (CFAP) Farmers to Families Food Box initiative has been stopped, and the Congressmembers have subsequently heard the same from other local food assistance groups in the borough, as well as in the Bronx."I have worked closely with La Jornada and many other local food assistance organizations and food pantries, and I've seen firsthand the critical assistance that they provide to Queens residents," said Congresswoman Meng. "I am deeply concerned about impacts on their funding and we are looking into whether their contracts with vendors are ending, and whether they have been provided with information on how to renew them. Not having access to these funds would have a devastating impact on so many in our borough who depend on the services that La Jornada and others provide, particularly during the COVID-19 crisis. As part of coronavirus response legislation, I fought to ensure that the Farmers to Families program supported those who are food insecure as a result of COVID-19, and that it was fully funded. As the pandemic continues to force families to endure financial hardships, we must make sure that nobody goes hungry, and that all New Yorkers have access to food.""Congresswoman Meng and I have been in touch with the USDA and La Jornada and we are committed to doing all we can to remedy the situation," said Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez. "La Jornada and other area food pantries have been invaluable resources to our districts during this time - but of course we should not be in a situation that so heavily relies on non-profits to provide a lifeline to our communities. The House has passed a bill that would provide financial and nutritional relief to those in our districts facing hunger and other economic challenges due to COVID-19. The Republican Senate's refusal to allow a vote on these measures is appalling. We encourage constituents who need food assistance now to call 311 and ask for "emergency food assistance" to access a list of alternative food banks and resources. Language assistance is available.""Food insecurity and hunger from the COVID-19 pandemic remain a very real and deep challenge for many in the Borough of Families," said Acting Queens Borough President Sharon Lee. "Any interruption in food supply for Queens pantries in the middle of this pandemic would be a substantial blow to the growing lines of elders and families with children who rely on these pantries for food. Time is of the essence.""In a community that was already experiencing food insecurity prior to COVID-19, we saw the need skyrocket as thousands of our neighbors lost their jobs after the state shutdown," said Assemblywoman Catalina Cruz (D-Queens). "Food banks, such as La Jornada's, have been critical in ensuring the survival of our community during the pandemic. As we prepare for a resurgence of the epidemic, it is crucial that funding continues so that our community does not have to go hungry."

The Coronavirus Food Assistance Program's Farmers to Families Food Box initiative is administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Meng and Ocasio-Cortez are in contact with the agency about the problem with area pantries and food assistance organizations.###==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Releases Statement on 3rd Anniversary of Hurricane Maria
Date: September 20, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY- Today, on the third anniversary of Hurricane Maria's landfall on Puerto Rico, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released a statement."On the third anniversary of Maria, we remember the nearly 3,000 Puerto Ricans that died in the aftermath, my grandfather among them - whose death the U.S. denied. To this day, it remains a deeply traumatic event etched into the minds of all who survived it and a reminder of the perils of a changing climate. Puerto Rico deserves an investment in its infrastructure, in its future, and in the fight against climate change, so that these injustices are never repeated."We can begin by cancelling Puerto Rico's debt, much of which is suspected to be illegal. We must abolish PROMESA, whose extreme austerity measures have closed public schools and defunded other critical public services. We must lift the Jones Act, which has exploited Puerto Rican consumers and strangled the economy. We must pass a Marshall Plan for Puerto Rico, as Senators Sanders and Warren have called for, and allow the island to enact its own Green New Deal with direct federal investments, in order to rebuild. Most of all, we must end the island's colonial status and pass the Puerto Rico Self-Determination Act, so the island can finally determine its own destiny."We cannot simply repair the damage caused by Hurricane Maria. Rebuilding things as they were only sets us up for a repeat. Maria exposed how years of imperialism have completely ravaged Puerto Rico's economy and crippled its ability to respond to the threat of climate change. We must rebuild stronger."==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Schumer Demand FEMA Release Funeral Assistance for COVID-19 Victims’ Families
Date: September 15, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) urged FEMA to release funeral assistance to the families of COVID-19 victims. The representatives reached out to FEMA requesting this assistance in the Spring and received no response. Since then, however, President Trump has authorized FEMA to use Other Needs Assistance (ONA) for all the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Major Disaster Declarations through the Lost Wage Assistance Executive Order. This presidential authorization should give FEMA the authority to provide disaster funeral assistance to New York State and any other state that requests it, so the members urged FEMA to utilize it. The full letter is available below."COVID-19 has killed nearly 200,000 Americans - impacting frontline communities like those in my district the hardest," saidRep. Ocasio-Cortez. "These vulnerable families shouldn't have to bear the financial cost or enter new cycles of poverty on top of the enormous human and emotional toll they have already paid. The very least our country can do is help them bury their loved ones with dignity.""Families across New York, especially in Queens have already paid the ultimate price with the tragic loss of their loved ones to the coronavirus," said U.S Senator Charles Schumer. "FEMA must use its latest authority to do the right thing during this crisis—exactly what they did after Hurricane Sandy— and make available the funeral funds Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and I have been asking for. New York families faced with mounting service and burial costs simply cannot afford to wait."

Ocasio-Cortez also introduced a bill in May with Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) that, if enacted, would instruct FEMA to disperse $10,000 to cover the funeral expenses of those lost to the pandemic. A full copy of the bill is availablehere.

Full Letter from Rep. Ocasio-Cortez and Sen. Schumer to FEMA, September 15 
Dear Administrator Gaynor:

While President Trump's recent executive order on unemployment assistance is unworkable, weak, and narrow, it does provide an opportunity for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help the people of New York and, tragically, many Americans. As the President has now authorized FEMA to use Other Needs Assistance (ONA) for all the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Major Disaster Declarations, FEMA should utilize this authority to provide disaster funeral assistance to New York State and any other state that requests it.

On August 8, President Trump issued the "Memorandum on Authorizing the Other Needs Assistance Program for Major Disaster Declarations Related to Coronavirus Disease 2019." While the President's focus of this memorandum was to provide additional unemployment assistance, beyond the scope of what is allowed in the already existing Disaster Unemployment Assistance, this document has opened a new and important source of federal support to the hundreds of thousands of grieving families across New York and this country. That is Disaster Funeral Assistance. We wrote to you in April with a number of our colleagues, urging you to activate ONA and the subcategory best known as Disaster Funeral Assistance and your response was that it was under review. We are happy to see that ONA has now been approved and reiterate our call that you provide this assistance immediately, and retroactively, for all New Yorkers who lost a loved one to COVID-19.

When we wrote to you in the middle of April, New York had 200,000 confirmed cases and over 10,000 deaths. Since that initial letter, this number has climbed to a staggering 444,948 confirmed positive cases and a heart wrenching 25,394 deaths. The country as a whole has over 6,570,000 confirmed positive cases and almost 200,000 deaths. Those figures leave us speechless. Compounding the horrific loss of life, the families and loved ones of those loss are saddled with a funeral bill, all while the economy lays in shambles around them. As we have said to you on the phone and in letters before, this is unacceptable and FEMA must rise to the occasion and help our fellow Americans. Congress has provided FEMA with the statutory authority and ample funding to provide assistance to these people, the President has now authorized the use of the program in his August 8 memorandum, all that remains is for FEMA to act.

In addition to Disaster Funeral Assistance, now that ONA has been activated, households should be encouraged to apply for Disaster Medical Assistance. This program would help cover the medical costs people face when diagnosed with COVID-19, including medications and insurance co-payments. ONA is built to be incredibly flexible and therefore can even cover childcare costs,

up to eight cumulative weeks, as well as reimbursement for eligible miscellaneous items to assist with an applicant's disaster recovery as defined by state, territorial, and tribal governments.

While we deeply appreciate all that you and the people of FEMA have already done to assist New York during this difficult and tragic time, this is not the moment to shy away from your mission. New York needs you right now. We urge you to immediately, and retroactively, provide Disaster Funeral Assistance to New York, and any other state that should request it, and expeditiously publish guidance on how New Yorkers can utilize this program.

Thank you for your time and attention to this matter, if you have questions please do not hesitate to contact our staff.

Sincerely,

Charles E. Schumer, United States Senator

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Member of Congress

==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez Calls on Con Edison to Address Delay in Service Restoration
Date: August 7, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
THE BRONX, NY- Following reports that many neighborhoods in New York's 14th Congressional District still lack power due to Tropical Storm Isaias, Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez released the following statement calling on Con Edison to take short- and long-term measures to address their apparent lack of preparedness for the storm. ​

"My office has been in constant contact with Con Edison since the storm, and while I appreciate the hard work being done by Con Edison's frontline employees, it's clear that Con Edison management was not prepared for this storm. Con Edison has said that the vast majority of customers are expected to have their power restored by the end of day Sunday – five full days after the storm hit. That is unacceptable. In the peak of summer, our elderly are being trapped indoors without A/C and, given the risk presented by COVID-19, they have few safe options for leaving their home to find respite. Other constituents have lost income because they have no internet access and cannot work remotely. We have also heard from community members with medical conditions who are unable to use their medical devices or properly store their medicine without refrigeration. Con Edison must do whatever it can to restore power more quickly to those most at risk and it must also conduct a thorough self-evaluation so it is not unprepared like this again."

The Congresswoman also released this list of resources for constituents impacted by the storm damage:- Customers can report outages or service problems by calling 1-800-75-CONED (26633).- Con Edison's onlineoutage maphas the most up to date information about individual outages.- To receive text update alerts on power restoration go toConEd.com/textor Text REG to OUTAGE (688243) for updates.- People can report storm damages to the City through 311 (online or phone). Make sure that even if a tree is reported elsewhere that you also submit the report to 311.- Treat all downed wires as live. They may be hidden under tree branches and pools of water. If you see a downed tree or wire please call Con Edison at 800-752-6633.- NYCHA has some tree damage and some power outages. They are doing wellness checks. Customer Contact Number is 718-707-7771 for residents to report outages or damage.- For Con Edison customers in The Bronx, dry ice is available at the Home Depot Store 1806 E Gun Hill Rd from 1PM - 9PM. For customers in Queens, dry ice can be picked up during the same hours at the Forest Park at the George Seuffert Bandshell parking lot, 19 Forest Park Drive.- Con Edison recommends that customers keep receipts for spoiled food and medicine. They can submit their claim to Con Edisonhere.==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Velázquez Call for Investigation Into Possible Martin Act Violations by New York Hedge Funds
Date: August 5, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Nydia Velázquez led a letter to the New York Attorney General requesting an investigation into possible Martin Act violations by several New York-based hedge funds. Recentfilingsin the PROMESA Title III litigation revealed that some hedge fund groups may have engaged in insider trading by artificially manipulating bond markets. Since the bonds at issue were governed by New York State law and sold and marketed within the state, this falls within the jurisdiction of the New York Attorney General's office."This is an opportunity to investigate and hold accountable the various financial institutions that have exploited Puerto Rico, which is facing the worst economic depression in its history, one that undoubtedly impacts New Yorkers who have historic, cultural, economic, and community ties to the island. We respectfully ask that your office initiate an investigation immediately into this potentially illicit conduct and hold accountable those who continue to seek to profit off of poverty," reads the letter.

The Martin Act is a uniquely strong tool at the sole discretion of the New York Attorney General. As defined by New York courts, the Martin Act covers "all acts" that may "deceive or mislead the purchasing public," even those without "any actual evil design or contrivance to perpetrate fraud or injury upon others."

The letter is co-signed by New York delegation members Representatives Maloney, Serrano, and Espaillat. The full letter text is availablehere. The letter was also supported by the Center for Popular Democracy and LatinoJustice PRLDEF."For too long, we've seen Wall Street hedge funds and other bad actors profit from Puerto Rico's debt, at the expense of the millions of American U.S. citizens who reside there," said Congresswoman Velázquez. "Now, it appears that some of these vulture funds were using non-public information to purchase certain classes of Puerto Rico bonds, at the same time they were participating in the debt mediation process. Not only is this another example of deep pocketed interests profiteering off Puerto Ricans' suffering, but these hedge funds may have also violated securities law. There needs to be an immediate, thorough investigation and any wrongdoing must be swiftly prosecuted."

Jesus Gonzalez, the Senior National Organizer and Strategic Partnerships Advisor at the Center for Popular Democracy, added, "The New York Attorney General Letitia James has a unique and powerful tool at her disposal to stand up for the people of Puerto Rico, including the more than one million Puerto Ricans living in New York. Credible allegations have been made that hedge funds, that have bought large portions of Puerto Rico's debt at a steep discount, may have engaged in unlawful activity to make large sums of money at the expense of the Puerto Rican people. This has meant that while Wall Street gets richer, Puerto Rico's economy continues to plummet and our communities suffer from its impact. We applaud and join the New York Congressional members in asking the New York Attorney General to open an investigation under the Martin Act: a New York State law that grants the New York Attorney General broad powers to investigate securities fraud, and has been used by previous attorneys general to police Wall Street to great effect.""We are encouraged by the letter sent by Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortéz and other Members of Congress to New York Attorney General Letitia James requesting that her office investigate numerous hedge funds for clear Martin Act violations, in order to continue profiting off of the pain of Puerto Ricans," said Senior Counsel for LatinoJustice, Natasha Lycia Ora Bannan. "For years, these hedge funds and others engaged in scrupulous and illegal practices to plunge Puerto Rico into a debt they cannot get out of, causing the greatest economic depression on the island in its history. The Puerto Rican people continue to suffer under an austerity regime as a result of the predatory practices of these hedge funds. The Attorney General should make clear that such blatantly unlawful and immoral behavior will not be tolerated by New York companies.""PROMESA has allowed Wall Street to profit off of the suffering of Puerto Ricans. Although hedge funds have secured generous settlements and made billions off this crisis , it now appears that their greed may have driven some New York financial institutions to take illegal actions. We urge the AG to consider investigating this matter, and for Congress to abolish PROMESA now," said Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez in a statement.==
Title: Amendment to Defund Operation Legend Passes House by Voice Vote
Date: July 31, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, the House passed by a voice vote an amendment presented by Representatives Ted Lieu, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, Deb Haaland, and Emanuel Cleaver that would directly impact the federal government's ongoing interference in Portland and other U.S. cities. The amendment to H.R. 7617 - the Defense, Commerce, Justice, Science, Energy and Water Development, Financial Services and General Government, Homeland Security, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act - will prohibit funds from being used for DOJ's Operation Legend and Operation Relentless Pursuit, which are being used to send federal law enforcement officers into various cities across the U.S. The amendment text is availablehere."Federal law enforcement officers are snatching Americans off of street corners and placing them into unmarked cars for the ‘crime' of exercising their First Amendment rights. The United States of America should not have secret police," said Rep. Ocasio-Cortez. "The idea that these federal law enforcement officers are there to protect Americans is a farce. In his testimony this week, Attorney General Bill Barr made clear once again that his only priority is to reelect the President, not to protect the American people."We're seeing federal forces crack down on protestors and make illegal arrests. AG Barr and President Trump are abusing their power to brutalize communities that didn't ask for federal intervention. It is my desire to see a final minibus bill that makes it clear that Congress won't allow Trump to send untrained, unwelcome stormtroopers to American cities," said Congressman Ted Lieu."The mission of law enforcement is to protect and serve our communities, but when the Trump Administration sends federal officers into our cities, they harass people and abuse their power. This amendment will protect our communities from President Trump's attempts to make our neighborhoods combat zones in his efforts to silence us," said Congresswoman Deb Haaland."Operation Legend and Operation Relentless Pursuit are a continuation of the same disgraced tough on crime policies that have failed to keep our communities safe while disproportionately locking up Black and brown people," Congresswoman Tlaib said. "Many communities in my district have been systematically overpoliced, and at a time when trust is low and people are crying out for justice, the presence of unidentified federal agents in our neighborhoods only serves to escalate conflict that will disproportionately harm our neighbors of color. I am proud to cosponsor this amendment to defund this blatant attempt to sow fear and division in order to save the President's poll numbers.""Trust grows out of credibility, and credibility grows from clear, honest communication," said Congressman Cleaver. "Due to the constant untruths and misrepresentations from the Attorney General and this Administration, they have forfeited any benefit of the doubt with these operations. What we need are bipartisan solutions to address the root causes of this troubling rise in violence, including easy access to guns and unequal access to economic prosperity. Until then, Congress should not give this administration free reign to infringe upon the rights of American citizens to peaceably assemble in cities across the country."==
Title: Rep. Ocasio-Cortez Opposes COVID-19 Relief Funding for AirTrain Project
Date: July 29, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
QUEENS, NY- Today, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) released the following statement, opposing the use of federal relief funds for the construction of an AirTrain to LaGuardia Airport from Willis Point."Today, I stand with the East Elmhurst community and Guardians of Flushing Bay, Queens Community Board 3, Ditmars Boulevard Block Association, Together We Can, and the COVID Care Network and ask that no federal COVID-19 relief funding directed to the Port Authority be used for the construction of an AirTrain to LaGuardia Airport from Willis Point."The community surrounding LaGuardia was among the hardest hit by COVID-19, and many of its residents are now facing eviction or other serious economic consequences of the pandemic. These families have been crying out for relief for months. While state and local funding is desperately needed in the next COVID-19 relief package, it would be the ultimate insult to finally send aid to this community in the form of a project that they firmly oppose and that could further jeopardize their health and safety."The proposed Willis Point route is likely to lead to overcrowding on the 7 train, a concern the community has raised for years but which has gained additional urgency in a post-COVID-19 era. There are also valid ecological concerns about the construction through park and marshland that this route would require. Most importantly, however, is the general disregard for community input. Over half of the public comments submitted to this project opposed the AirTrain and yet this majority was utterly disregarded."Until such time as a new route is identified, or the community's concerns are sufficiently alleviated, no federal COVID-19 relief funding should be granted to the Port Authority for the purpose of constructing the AirTrain."==
Title: Ocasio-Cortez, Norton to Introduce Bill Requiring All Law Enforcement Officers’ Uniforms to Identify Their Name & Agency
Date: July 20, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- This week, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) and Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) will introduce the ‘Law Enforcement Identification Transparency Act of 2020,' requiring all federal law enforcement officers to identify their name, agency and badge number on their uniform at all times while on duty or serving the public. This bill follows multiple reports of unidentified law enforcement at public demonstrations and a recent Nationreportthat revealed that many of these law enforcement officers were with federal agencies never intended or trained to patrol civilian populations or public demonstrations."Secret police snatching Americans off of street corners and shooting rubber bullets at peaceful demonstrators is something we would expect to see in an authoritarian state, not outside the White House. Yet, that is our current reality," said Ocasio-Cortez in a statement. "This bill will increase accountability and oversight for law enforcement. Currently, law enforcement can violate an American's First Amendment right with complete anonymity. If an officer violates their agency's policies, their victim should have the ability to report them to their agency and demand accountability."

The bill also conditions federal funding for local and state law enforcement on the inclusion of identifying information on their uniforms. Additionally, the bill requires each federal law enforcement agency to implement a policy that is in accordance with the bill's outlined goals, and requires data reporting on compliance with that policy. The full bill text is availablehere.
###==
Title: ‘The Squad’ Calls for Reductions to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol Budget
Date: July 16, 2020
Issues: No issues found

Content:
WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley, and Rashida Tlaib released a statement urging House Leadership to significantly reduce the budget for Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) in the upcoming Appropriations bills. This call follows a recentreportfrom the Government Accountability Office (GAO), which found that the additional funds appropriated by Congress to CBP in 2019, which the four Congresswomen voted against, were misused."As we continue through appropriations season, it is important to remember the lessons of last year. In 2019, as thousands of migrant families were held in cages and detained in horrific conditions along the southern border, the President requested and Congress handed over an additional $112 million in funding to CBP, which was intended to be used for food and medical care. In June, a report unveiled by the GAO, an independent government watchdog, found that these taxpayer funds were instead used on dirt bikes, ATVs and other unnecessary items."Last year, the four of us voted against this CBP funding, clear eyed that CBP and ICE are rogue agencies that act to inflict harm on our communities and have a pattern of behavior of abuse and mismanagement of funds. This year, the House must hold CBP accountable for their egregious violation of the law by withholding any further funding and imposing additional accountability measures with real consequences."==